---
id: 9031
title: 0228 – getting back into the groove of Heavy Reading
date: 2015-02-07T10:39:21+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://visakanv.com/1000/?p=9031
permalink: /0228
readability_ARI:
  - "3.8"
readability_CLI:
  - "5.6"
readability_LIX:
  - "23.2"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1095"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:477:"a:28:{s:4:"want";i:21;s:4:"read";i:21;s:5:"books";i:18;s:4:"just";i:5;s:7:"reading";i:16;s:5:"think";i:10;s:6:"really";i:9;s:6:"things";i:3;s:4:"like";i:9;s:4:"work";i:7;s:5:"right";i:5;s:5:"thing";i:6;s:5:"great";i:6;s:4:"good";i:3;s:5:"maybe";i:4;s:7:"because";i:5;s:9:"important";i:5;s:6:"what's";i:3;s:4:"need";i:8;s:8:"pleasure";i:4;s:4:"feel";i:6;s:4:"time";i:6;s:8:"actually";i:4;s:7:"writing";i:3;s:7:"suppose";i:4;s:4:"i'll";i:7;s:11:"dostoyevsky";i:4;s:4:"book";i:3;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
tags:
  - procrastination
---
I&#8217;ve been asking myself this question a few times. I know that I want to read a lot. I have a lot of books. I have books I want to read that I haven&#8217;t yet. So what do I do? What are the first steps? I got to break it down into all the components. Here are just some of the thoughts that I have:

  * Re-reading books that I think I should
  * Reading the books that I say I want to
  * Reading the books that I really, really want to
  * Figuring out how all the books interplay with each other
  * Figuring out what are the categories of books that I have, and which matter the most to me

I think I have a lot of books about scientific phenomena, about big picture things like how things work– and I&#8217;m not incredibly interested in that _right now_. It&#8217;s stuff that I would like to have had read, but right now the thing I most want is some heroic inspiration from great men and women, on how to live my life.

I also want to read books that I can crunch and review. I&#8217;ve read quite a bit of Good to Great– I&#8217;m about halfway through. I should quickly finish that up– why haven&#8217;t I yet? Maybe because the expected value isn&#8217;t that great. Understanding what makes a company great isn&#8217;t really the most important thing to me right now. It&#8217;s fairly important but not the MOST important thing.

Okay. So what&#8217;s THE MOST IMPORTANT thing? I think first I need to focus on the books that are already on my shelves. Buying more books is a sort of escapism&#8230; and I know that I&#8217;m very guilty of that.

Alright. I turned around to look at the books on my shelf and I&#8217;m not sure what I&#8217;d prioritize. I think I should instead work backwards and remove the books that I&#8217;m not interested in? That would annoy my wife though. I should pick the books that I want to read instead. Okay– yes. There are many, many, many of those. What do I want to get out of those books? Is it just the pleasure of reading itself? Is it having processed something?

I feel like I don&#8217;t have time for pleasure-of-reading for the sake of pleasure-of-reading. And that&#8217;s a little sad to hear myself say, because one should always have the time for pleasurable reading! But what would actually give me the most pleasure right now? Refactoring what&#8217;s already in my head? I feel like I have all this tidying up to do. All these loose ends to tie up. I think I&#8217;m just going to focus on finishing Good To Great and then writing a few notes on that&#8230; is that what I really want to do?

Argh, it&#8217;s so frustrating! What I really want to do I guess is to read all the blogposts I&#8217;ve highlighted about Procrastination. I want to work with that exercise&#8230; I suppose I&#8217;d like to finish reading Dostoyevsky&#8217;s Letters From Underground, and maybe read Wozniak&#8217;s biography.  Then I want to re-read Bradbury&#8217;s Zen In The Art Of Writing. I&#8217;ll take all these books out and lay them out so that I have to encounter them. And then I must prioritize them&#8230; I&#8217;ll read Dostoyevsky next. Good To Great is my current sorta-businessy-read, and Dostoyevsky shall be my &#8220;soul-read&#8221;. I suppose I can do that. I have a businessy-read, a soul-read&#8230; and maybe a learn-about-the-world read. I bought The Box with the intention of doing more &#8220;learn-about-the-world&#8221; reading, but that doesn&#8217;t feel like a huge priority right now&#8230; though of course I&#8217;ll be the first to say sometimes what you most need is something that you don&#8217;t think you need, that you don&#8217;t feel that you need.

So– again. Dostoyevsky, Bradbury, Wozniak, Ogilvy. I think in that order. And i have to make it really small. I keep wanting reading to become this massive consuming thing, like I spend a whole day reading and doing nothing else. But that&#8217;s not necessary– I just need to start. I need to commit to starting, and maybe to reading a few pages at a time. Again, it feels sad that I even have to say this because I remember that there was a time where I&#8217;d do nothing else but read books all day. I suppose back then I didn&#8217;t have such easy Internet access. And I was young enough that every single new book seemed to be absolutely amazing. Now I&#8217;m old enough and have enough background to recognize that some books are shitty and not worth my time.

I also feel like I want to get some context and think about why I want to read each book, and what each book will mean to me. Dostoyevsky is my introduction to some Russian thinking. Bradbury is about sharpening my axe as a writer. Wozniak&#8230; I just want to get inside that guy&#8217;s head, because so much of the time everyone focuses on Steve Jobs.

But I suppose I ought to take a few minutes to breathe deeply, stare out the window and think about what I really, really want to read next.

Did that. Heh. The answer is actually my own writing. There are things in my own work that I haven&#8217;t examined. I feel like only after I examine all my own work will I actually have the context I need to figure out what&#8217;s the next most important thing I should read. I want to go through my own work and figure out what are the gaps, what are the low-resolution bits that need improving, what sort of remixing do I want to do?

So there&#8217;s the answer to my question. I haven&#8217;t been reading other people&#8217;s work because I haven&#8217;t been reading my own. I even want to read all my old tweets, and all my old Facebook posts&#8230; should I do that? Should I schedule that, at the expense of all other reading? Why the fuck not, actually? I&#8217;ve decided that moving forward I want to really break from the script and do whatever I think is interesting. I want to go somewhere new. So I&#8217;ll do that. I&#8217;ll postpone all my Heavy Reading until I do a Heavy Read of my own feeds- Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr and so on. And I&#8217;ll do it in a very deliberate, systematic way, and I&#8217;ll write down my thoughts about it. Boom.