---
id: 9223
title: 0297 – dialogue
date: 2015-04-16T03:25:06+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://visakanv.com/1000/?p=9223
permalink: /0297
readability_ARI:
  - "4.6"
readability_CLI:
  - "6.7"
readability_LIX:
  - "24.2"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1091"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:660:"a:38:{s:9:"monologue";i:3;s:4:"just";i:9;s:6:"things";i:5;s:4:"feel";i:8;s:4:"like";i:13;s:5:"going";i:5;s:7:"explore";i:3;s:7:"there's";i:3;s:7:"certain";i:3;s:7:"thought";i:3;s:5:"think";i:12;s:6:"people";i:11;s:7:"somehow";i:3;s:4:"sort";i:4;s:7:"because";i:5;s:4:"know";i:3;s:7:"express";i:3;s:6:"really";i:6;s:9:"different";i:6;s:6:"easier";i:3;s:5:"maybe";i:6;s:5:"write";i:3;s:7:"writing";i:4;s:4:"want";i:7;s:4:"well";i:3;s:4:"rock";i:3;s:12:"conversation";i:3;s:4:"fuck";i:3;s:8:"thoughts";i:3;s:4:"wear";i:11;s:5:"masks";i:4;s:4:"true";i:3;s:7:"wearing";i:3;s:5:"world";i:4;s:7:"women's";i:8;s:9:"underwear";i:9;s:7:"they've";i:3;s:8:"whatever";i:3;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
---
A: I&#8217;ve decided to start doing my vomits in the form of dialogues.

B: Why?

A: Lately I&#8217;ve been feeling a little stifled and limited by the monologue format. It&#8217;s just me talking over and over again, and some things seem harder to explain just by talking out loud.

B: How does a dialogue change anything?

A: I feel like it&#8217;s going to make a difference, like it&#8217;s going to allow me to explore things without necessarily taking sides. There&#8217;s something about the monologue format that makes it harder to do certain thought experiments. For example, suppose I said something like, &#8220;I think people are disgusting.&#8221;

B: Uhuh.

A: Somehow it feels worse if I&#8217;m saying it as some sort of confessional– because I don&#8217;t actually think people are disgusting all the time. Actually, I don&#8217;t know what I think. I think that&#8217;s the problem– I think it&#8217;s hard to express doubt, uncertainty and such in a monlogue without coming across as really&#8230; navel-gazy.

B: How&#8217;s this any different?

A: I feel like it&#8217;s easier to process. I feel like it&#8217;s easier to breathe. It&#8217;s easier to make sense of things by going back and forth over them, rather than simply by sitting on them and meditating endlessly.

B: Really?

A: Maybe, maybe not. In any case, the whole point of these vomits is for me to express myself and to write as much as I possibly can. And I feel like I&#8217;ve gone through a bunch of the same old ideas over and over again, and I&#8217;d like to cover more territory. And somehow I feel like I&#8217;m not comfortable covering certain territories because&#8230; writing in the first person feels like some sort of admission or confession. And I don&#8217;t really want to admit or confess to anything, I just want to explore ideas!

B: So you&#8217;re saying that somehow, by writing your perversions into some sort of fictional dialogue, you&#8217;re not a pervert– your characters are.

A: Yes! Well– yes. I worry about what people will think of me.

B: Why?

A: You know. Respectability and stuff. I still have bills to pay. I still have friends and family to worry about. I don&#8217;t want to embarrass everybody by writing about twisted, depraved shit. I wonder how Louis CK and George Carlin do it.

B: Well I suppose there&#8217;s some sort of theatrics to it. They&#8217;re rock stars. A rock star is the intersection of who you are and who you want to be. There&#8217;s a certain plausible deniability built into the fact that they&#8217;re performing, they&#8217;re performers. They can pour their hearts and souls out on stage and then maintain a calm facade afterwards, as you have a conversation with them, and they&#8217;ll tell you that it was an act.

A: Right. But the fact remains that the act was so powerful and profound because they were extremely honest in it. They were telling you what they really felt. George Carlin wouldn&#8217;t say &#8220;Why is it that people at abortion rallies are people you wouldn&#8217;t wanna fuck in the first place?&#8221; at a polite dinner conversation with his relatives, but he can say it on stage as a comedian. Does he really have those thoughts? Of course he does. Same for Chris Rock. &#8220;They spinni&#8217; nigga, they spinn&#8217;!&#8221; 

B: We all wear different masks in different roles. You&#8217;re just tired of your current mask and you&#8217;d like to wear a different one.

A: Yeah. 

B: You&#8217;re aware though, right, that there is no &#8220;true reality&#8221; underneath all the masks? There is nothing apart from the masks. We&#8217;re wearing masks even in this conversation. 

A: Sure. I think I&#8217;ve made my peace with that. I&#8217;m just really edgy and bored and feel like there are all these fuck-yous I want to say to the world– but maybe that&#8217;s just me being imprecise, me not knowing how to express myself. Maybe instead of yelling at people or getting angry and frustrated, I should just write it into stories. I should write about people who have horrible things happening to them. I should reveal how circusy the world is by writing about it. And if people aren&#8217;t going to listen to me when I go on an extended monologue, maybe I could turn it into a story.

B: That makes sense. A couple of things are coming to my mind. One is Obama&#8217;s interview with Vox. You saw how well-composed he was during that one, and how he spoke with a quiet thoughtfulness. It&#8217;s interesting to contrast that with when he was giving his hope-and-change rallies, and when he was informing the world that Osama bin Laden had been killed. And when he&#8217;s singing Al Green, and when he&#8217;s at the White House Correspondent&#8217;s dinner. All of these sides of him are all equally valid, equally true, and yet they&#8217;re so different.

A: Yeah. I want to be able to code-switch. It&#8217;s not that I&#8217;m embarrassed about my &#8220;native tongue&#8221; or my native mode of being, but I feel like I can&#8217;t even tell who I am without trying on something different, you know? Maybe that&#8217;s why men sometimes wear women&#8217;s underwear.

B: I thought they wear it because it&#8217;s so soft and satin-y.

A: Isn&#8217;t it too tight though?

B: Beats me. 

A: See, now are the people reading this going to think that I&#8217;ve worn women&#8217;s underwear, or that I&#8217;m thinking about wearing women&#8217;s underwear?

B: That probably depends on whether they&#8217;ve worn or thought about wearing women&#8217;s underwear themselves. Or if they&#8217;re women, whether they&#8217;ve had partners who want to wear their underwear. Or it depends on what they&#8217;ve read.

A: But see, I don&#8217;t wear women&#8217;s underwear. I just think it&#8217;s INTERESTING to think about the people who wear women&#8217;s underwear, and to explore that idea. And for the record, I don&#8217;t think it should be embarrassing to wear whatever the fuck you like. I don&#8217;t judge anybody for whatever they wear, or whatever kinky thoughts they might have. I wish we lived in a world where we could all just share our kinky thoughts and not be judged for it.

B: Sure, you do you, dude. Why do you feel a need to point out that you don&#8217;t wear women&#8217;s underwear, though?

A: Because I guess I&#8217;m still nervous and scared that people will think of me weirdly.

B: It doesn&#8217;t matter if they do, though.

A: That&#8230; is true. 

B: So do you wear women&#8217;s underwear?

A: Nah.