---
id: 9283
title: 0319 – tawk is cheap
date: 2015-05-02T10:43:53+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://visakanv.com/1000/?p=9283
permalink: /0319
readability_ARI:
  - "9"
readability_CLI:
  - "8.5"
readability_LIX:
  - "30.2"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1018"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:476:"a:28:{s:7:"writing";i:10;s:4:"days";i:3;s:6:"little";i:8;s:4:"like";i:9;s:6:"things";i:4;s:6:"really";i:3;s:5:"think";i:3;s:7:"there's";i:6;s:4:"feel";i:6;s:7:"because";i:4;s:4:"time";i:3;s:8:"internet";i:5;s:6:"reddit";i:5;s:6:"people";i:6;s:12:"conversation";i:4;s:8:"facebook";i:6;s:4:"used";i:3;s:4:"felt";i:5;s:7:"suppose";i:6;s:4:"work";i:3;s:4:"easy";i:3;s:4:"same";i:3;s:7:"exactly";i:3;s:5:"block";i:3;s:5:"thing";i:4;s:6:"matter";i:3;s:4:"tawk";i:4;s:5:"cheap";i:4;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
---
In Zen In The Art Of Writing, Ray Bradbury describes how he feels weird if he doesn&#8217;t write for a couple of days. I can&#8217;t remember the details, so I&#8217;ll project how I interpreted it. A little anxious, a little morose, a little &#8220;unclean&#8221;, even. Not writing for a few days is like not cleaning the house for a few days– things start to get dirty and messy and really uncomfortable. I think if there&#8217;s anything at all that suggests that I might be destined to be a writer, it&#8217;s the fact that I feel really weird when I haven&#8217;t written in a while. It&#8217;s silly of me not to internalize this fact quicker, because I&#8217;d be both happier and more productive if I simply wrote everyday.

I spent a little bit of time today clicking around the internet, clicking around reddit, and I started to feel my brain rotting. I fucking hate that feeling, it&#8217;s one of the worst feelings in the world. I call myself a child of the Internet, but the truth is that a lot of the internet is very tedious and wasteful. I like the internet for its ability to connect people, but the vast majority of people aren&#8217;t interested in having some sort of in-depth conversation at every moment. They might be receptive to it if it&#8217;s something that means a lot to them, but most people go on Reddit or Facebook for quick entertainment and laughs, and some bitching and steam-letting.

I used to be a Facebook addict, writing long status updates, replying to other people&#8217;s statuses, really, spending hours on it everyday. Somehow it felt like validation, it felt like I wasn&#8217;t wasting my time even if there were little to no stakes, and little to no impact on my life outside of those pixels. I eventually got sick of it and I deleted every single friend off of Facebook. The silence was deafening for a while, but I adjusted. I went on to unfollow everyone on Twitter, Tumblr and Instagram as well. I think this happened around August 2014 or so, and for a few months I sort of enjoyed living that different life.

Over time, though, it crept back on me. I haven&#8217;t been writing Facebook status-essays, and I&#8217;ve been doing these vomits instead, which I am prouder of. I&#8217;m not sure why that is. I suppose when you own your own project, put your own name on it, and carve out a space for yourself rather than piggyback off of communal space and communal attention, you get to dictate how the conversation goes. I&#8217;ve noticed this playing out even on my own blogs– I used to blog about Singaporean political issues, and I kept at it because there was all sorts of feedback. But after a while I realized that I was playing into a broader circus that wasn&#8217;t entirely of my own choosing. I was writing what other people wanted to read, and it felt a little hollow.

I&#8217;m currently re-reading Neil Strauss&#8217;s The Game, which is I think an underrated book– he talks about all sorts of interesting things apart from having sex with women, but most people just focus on the sex-with-women part. If and when I review it, I&#8217;d like to review all of the other parts instead. The part that&#8217;s relevant to this train of thought– Neil talked about how standup comedians teach themselves to develop a tight 5-minute routine that should work on anybody, anywhere, but after using it over and over again they lose respect for audiences because they&#8217;re so easy to manipulate. I suppose I felt the same way about writing about the Singaporean political scene, which was what made me quit. And I suppose similarly, I felt that frustration with myself for smoking cigarettes, and I feel that frustration now when I watch myself writing mini-essays on Reddit– exactly the same way I used to do on Facebook. 

Why do I keep seeking out this micro-validation from strangers on the Internet? I suppose because it&#8217;s easy and accessible and bite-sized. There&#8217;s something about a conversation– and I was having this conversation (so meta) on Twitter with a couple of writers I admire. They were talking about writer&#8217;s block, and I shared with them that my go-to solution to writer&#8217;s block is to simply explain to another person what you want to write– and then use that explanation as source material. One of them said– Exactly, there&#8217;s no such thing as Talker&#8217;s Block. 

I suppose that&#8217;s the thing about writing in response to other people– there&#8217;s no blockage. It&#8217;s easier. You feel like there&#8217;s a demand for your work. I was reading somewhere else that it&#8217;s very easy to get caught up in the busywork of replying to emails– there&#8217;s something about what it feels like to respond to a question, or to something somebody says– that makes you feel like what you&#8217;re doing matters. And the deceptive thing is– it&#8217;s not that it doesn&#8217;t matter at all (ignoring existential does-anything-matter considerations), it&#8217;s that it&#8217;s usually worth RELATIVELY little. Tawk is cheap, except in the few instances where it isn&#8217;t, and sitting around waiting for these opportunities is a very lousy strategy. It can sorta feel good, but it&#8217;s lousy.

I guess I&#8217;m writing this to myself to say, dude, get the fuck off Reddit. It&#8217;s the same problem you had with Facebook, which is that you&#8217;re not exactly talking or writing on your own terms. You&#8217;re just following strangers around. It&#8217;s like sitting in a bar looking for conversations to join. The problem is that it&#8217;s very rare that great conversationalists come to a bar to bitch about things– more often than not they&#8217;re busy with their work. They&#8217;re busy focused on the things that matter. So I suppose this is my affirmation to say, no reddit for me until I&#8217;ve made substantial progress with these vomits. Maybe until I&#8217;m done with the whole thing altogether. Tawk is cheap. Tawk is cheap. Tawk is cheap.