---
id: 9453
title: 0386 – soooo sleepy
date: 2015-06-24T15:55:21+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://visakanv.com/1000/?p=9453
permalink: /0386
readability_ARI:
  - "4.4"
readability_CLI:
  - "5.8"
readability_LIX:
  - "22.1"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1113"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:518:"a:32:{s:7:"writing";i:3;s:6:"trying";i:3;s:4:"keep";i:4;s:5:"going";i:8;s:5:"tired";i:4;s:5:"sleep";i:3;s:4:"work";i:6;s:4:"home";i:4;s:4:"take";i:3;s:9:"different";i:4;s:4:"sort";i:5;s:4:"just";i:10;s:4:"idea";i:3;s:4:"want";i:6;s:5:"stuff";i:3;s:4:"yeah";i:3;s:4:"like";i:8;s:4:"read";i:5;s:6:"really";i:6;s:5:"silly";i:3;s:6:"little";i:3;s:4:"time";i:4;s:7:"suppose";i:4;s:4:"feel";i:4;s:4:"i'll";i:4;s:6:"finish";i:3;s:5:"books";i:4;s:4:"book";i:3;s:6:"toilet";i:3;s:4:"game";i:3;s:6:"people";i:4;s:5:"bring";i:3;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
tags:
  - sleep
---
_Note to future self: I&#8217;m only writing this because I&#8217;m trying to keep a streak going. Will not even bother fixing the paragraphing. _

Damn I&#8217;m tired. Physically tired. But this is to be expected– it&#8217;s only my third day in a row waking up at 6am, and I didn&#8217;t get as much sleep as I wish I did. I&#8217;m going to work from home tomorrow– I&#8217;m still going to wake up early, but I&#8217;m going to take some naps throughout the day probably. But I intend to keep waking up at 6am every day.

It&#8217;s interesting to see how different I am when I&#8217;m tired. It&#8217;s totally a different state of consciousness. I forget a lot of things. And I can&#8217;t make good decisions. I sort of just default to this &#8220;Ignore everything, just go home,&#8221; sort of state. I have 900 more words to go and I no idea what I&#8217;m going to talk about. This is a challenge. So what does my mind default to when I&#8217;m this tired? Uhh. I guess I start describing my surroundings. I have a potted plant on my kitchen windowsill. My cats are sitting outside my bedroom door (my wife&#8217;s inside, and they probably want to be let in). I&#8217;ve started keping track of my stuff on calendars that we printed out with our new printer. Yeah, I finally got a printer. I&#8217;ve always sorta wanted to have one, but it never felt like a pressing need. It felt like an indulgence. But I figured, hey, if I&#8217;m going to be a writer, I&#8217;m going to want to print stuff out and read it on paper. It&#8217;s just a different experience, isn&#8217;t it? A part of me sincerely wants to print out every single word vomit I&#8217;ve written. And just hold it in my hands. It&#8217;ll just be this really tactile, concrete evidence of the work I&#8217;ve been putting into this, however silly or arbitrary or inconsequential. And also I&#8217;ve just always liked the idea of being able to externalize cognition, yet I&#8217;ve always done very little about it. It&#8217;s just one of those ideas I&#8217;ve held on to for a long, long time. I&#8217;m particularly in love with Brett Victor&#8217;s ideas about interactive spaces. About thinking with our hands, with our bodies. Laptops with Internet connections give us superpowers, but they also have us all hunched up, moving our fingers. I suppose a standing desk might be better. I have that option at work but I hardly use it. Why? I don&#8217;t know. Habit? Do I feel silly? It seems like I have some strange friction or blockage or inertia that keeps me from trying the things I know I should try. I want to get better at drawing little sketches and doing sketchy note-taking. So I should plan in advance and set aside some time to do this, maybe over the weekends.

Well, at least I&#8217;m writing about it now. I&#8217;ll want to review/reference this. Let me add it to my Workflowy&#8230; okay, done. And then I got distracted for a minute or two, but I&#8217;m back here because I really want to finish this and publish it and to go bed. Why am I writing this so late, anyway? I left work a little later than usual but not THAT late. I must have been drifting off after I got home. Oh yeah, I really took my time to have my dinner (a subway sandwich that the wife had bought and didn&#8217;t finish). I suppose all of this is just even more incentive and proof that I need to get myself quality sleep. I&#8217;m feeling as sleepy now as I usually do when I stay up until say, 5 or 6am in the morning (when usually going to bed at say, 230am).

How&#8217;s everything else? Well, it&#8217;s alright. I&#8217;m not sure if I mentioned this but I&#8217;ve discovered that it&#8217;s quite possible to read many books at once if/when I read all these books in different contexts. So I keep a book in my toilet (I have a pretty high shelf where I keep it, so it&#8217;s dry and stuff– I finished Tolle&#8217;s Power of Now, Strauss&#8217;s The Game and Wozniak&#8217;s autobiography all entirely during toilet time, lol), I have a couple of books in the living room (I seldom if ever get around to reading these&#8230; but it does feel like they&#8217;re &#8220;getting warmer&#8221;– the big one that I really want to have read is Levinson&#8217;s The Box), I have a couple of books in the bedroom– I believe right now I&#8217;m reading Stupid White Men by Michael Moore, who has a very quirky, witty style. And I have Games People Play in my sling bag which I used to bring to work everyday. (I&#8217;m experimenting with a habit of leaving my laptop at work as much as possible, which does make for a delightful, unencumbered trip home. I suppose I could bring my bag with a book even if I don&#8217;t bring the laptop. Hmm. I&#8217;ll try that next week.) I&#8217;m kind of curious about Stendhal&#8217;s Confessions of an English Opium Eater. And also I feel like I&#8217;d like to sample the Faulkner, Hemingway and Steinbeck that I have but haven&#8217;t touched. I&#8217;m just raving randomly now.

My current toilet read is &#8220;Conversations with Remarkable People&#8221; by Osho. It&#8217;s really cheesy. It&#8217;s amusing to think anybody might take it &#8220;seriously&#8221;. I feel like the only real way to take spirituality seriously is to embrace it with a sense of humor. If you can&#8217;t laugh heartily at how silly and absurd everything is, the way a child does, then you&#8217;re kinda trapped, aren&#8217;t you? I suppose some people like the idea of being trapped– it&#8217;s a sort of sacrifice, a purity ritual, or a penance of some sort. I am unworthy, I am imperfect, I must suffer and be punished, and through this suffering and punishment I experience some sort of significance. That sounds crazy intellectually, but I have a feeling that a non-trivial part of me actually is hooked on that game, or some remix or variant of that game. Yeah, I guess if I should finish any particular book that I&#8217;m halfway through, it might be games people play. But really, this whole vomit is just me trying to small-talk my way to the end. Get me out of here. I&#8217;ll look back on this and think &#8220;jesus, go to sleep you stupid idiot!&#8221;

or maybe I&#8217;ll be kinder to myself by then. In any case. We&#8217;re done. I can write words to fill out a page. It&#8217;s a thing I can do. Goodnight!

&nbsp;