---
id: 9376
title: 0357 – actually 25
date: 2015-06-06T08:46:55+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://visakanv.com/1000/?p=9376
permalink: /0357
readability_ARI:
  - "4.9"
readability_CLI:
  - "5.3"
readability_LIX:
  - "21.9"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1021"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:506:"a:30:{s:4:"well";i:4;s:8:"actually";i:3;s:4:"25th";i:3;s:4:"days";i:3;s:4:"just";i:11;s:7:"because";i:3;s:7:"suppose";i:3;s:8:"birthday";i:5;s:7:"there's";i:3;s:6:"really";i:5;s:4:"feel";i:5;s:4:"like";i:11;s:7:"writing";i:3;s:8:"thinking";i:3;s:4:"time";i:4;s:5:"going";i:5;s:5:"think";i:8;s:9:"birthdays";i:3;s:8:"possible";i:3;s:4:"sort";i:3;s:4:"part";i:3;s:6:"trying";i:8;s:4:"hard";i:5;s:6:"things";i:5;s:4:"work";i:5;s:7:"showing";i:3;s:4:"show";i:5;s:5:"can't";i:3;s:4:"keep";i:4;s:6:"people";i:3;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
---
Well, so I actually turn 25 today. Today is my 25th trip around the sun. I&#8217;ve been around for about 9100 days now, meaning in 2-3 years I&#8217;d have been around for 10,000 days. But all of these are just numbers. Regardless, I found myself waking up remarkably early today, just because I suppose I was a little excited about the idea that it was my birthday. There&#8217;s nothing particularly special I had in mind. I choose to spend the morning eating McDonald&#8217;s in bed with my wife and we watched many episodes of Arrested Development together and it was really pleasant. I&#8217;m just resting and relaxing. It was raining. It&#8217;s been several hours since, and now I feel like I&#8217;d like to do some writing, so here I am.

I was thinking that if it&#8217;s my birthday I should just do whatever I&#8217;d want to do. And I asked myself, what do I really, realy want to do for my birthday? I suppose I&#8217;d like to watch a good movie. But I&#8217;ve already spent a bunch of time staring at images on a screen. I might go for a run later. I&#8217;ve been tempted to smoke but I&#8217;m going to deliberately choose not to. Just because these little choices feel arbitrarily more significant than on any other day. I&#8217;ll look back and think about how I spent my 25th birthday, and think of it well. That&#8217;s the hope, at least. I don&#8217;t particularly look back on any of my previous birthdays with a lot of clarity, though it&#8217;s entirely possible that that might simply be because I&#8217;ve never put a lot of effort into my birthdays. I just sort of allow them to pass.

A part of me was thinking that I&#8217;d really like to get A LOT of word vomits done today. Like, it&#8217;s my birthday, my wife is happy to let me do whatever I like, and as a person who thinks of himself as a writer, it would be nice to get a lot of writing done today. Just for&#8230; symbolic reasons, I guess? I know that my current &#8220;record&#8221; for most number of word vomits done in a day still lingers between 10 and 13. Ten thousand words seems to be my max. But I&#8217;ve not given it a better effort yet, all of my (few) prior efforts have been rather sparse, unfocused. I&#8217;m pretty sure I could get up to 20,000 words in a day. But that might require me to start early in the morning, rather than at 4pm in the afternoon. I&#8217;m not sure. We could give it a shot. Maybe we could go up to 15. That would be interesting, no?

While we&#8217;re on the subject of birthdays, I find myself thinking about what it was like to be me when I was younger. I was looking at some pictures and Facebook statuses from my older days, and I see a kid who was skinny, needier, perhaps less comfortable in his skin then than I am now. I do feel more comfortable now, and I think having a home has played a significant role in that. I&#8217;m not as fit as I&#8217;d like to be, but I don&#8217;t think I fidget or clam up as badly as I used to. I think those are good steps in the right direction. I&#8217;d just like to move faster. I feel like I&#8217;m going slow, and I feel like I&#8217;m not paying a lot of attention even though I talk about it a lot.

So there are a unch of possible solutions, right? Or possible interpretations. One is that I think I&#8217;m trying but I&#8217;m not really trying, and I should just try more, try harder, try properly. Another is that I&#8217;m actually trying too hard, and that trying too hard is exhausting and I should just let go and let things sort of happen in a mindful way. I think there is some validity to both answers, I think I don&#8217;t have as much mindfulness in my life as I ought to. It&#8217;s not that I work very hard or that I don&#8217;t work hard enough– I don&#8217;t even really know most of the time what state I&#8217;m actually in. I sort of rely on the outcome and my feelings to tell me how things are going. I&#8217;m tired and I&#8217;ve been at work for a long time, it must mean that I&#8217;ve been working hard. But that&#8217;s mostly busyness most of the time– it&#8217;s me trying to bang my head against a problem, or trying to win just by showing up and lingering. And yes, showing up is a huge part of solving any problem, but that&#8217;s not the only part, is it? There&#8217;s a lot more to it.

Or rather, &#8220;showing up&#8221; isn&#8217;t a single event– it&#8217;s an endless, infinite, recursive set of events within events. Yes, I have to show up to work, but then at work I have to show up to the task at hand. I showed up to my keyboard and I&#8217;m writing, but I should also show up in my head, show up to my thoughts, show up to my feelings, so on and so forth. There&#8217;s many levels of awareness, many levels of presence, and I suppose that&#8217;s what I need to be more mindful of. I can&#8217;t keep languishing in self-pity and keep trying to squeeze out more praise from things that I&#8217;ve already done. I&#8217;m 25 years old now. I can&#8217;t keep hoping that mommy or daddy or senpai is going to recognize me. I have to recognize myself. I have to provide my own internal validation. I have to assemble and direct my own life, and I can&#8217;t keep hoping that other people will validate me for it. I mean, I consider the feedback of thoughtful, intelligent people to be a sign that things are going well, but the point is to focus on making things go well– not trying to squeeze positive feedback out of people who aren&#8217;t volunteering it. That&#8217;s a surprisingly challenging&#8230; challenge.

Happy 25th, Visa.