---
id: 9440
title: 0382 – wake up earlier for a different life
date: 2015-06-22T03:24:04+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://visakanv.com/1000/?p=9440
permalink: /0382
readability_ARI:
  - "4.1"
readability_CLI:
  - "5.9"
readability_LIX:
  - "22"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1045"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:575:"a:35:{s:5:"point";i:3;s:5:"early";i:7;s:4:"just";i:5;s:4:"like";i:4;s:4:"time";i:5;s:4:"woke";i:5;s:4:"went";i:4;s:6:"wanted";i:5;s:5:"vomit";i:7;s:7:"instead";i:3;s:8:"internet";i:3;s:4:"want";i:3;s:5:"going";i:8;s:6:"finish";i:3;s:5:"thing";i:5;s:7:"morning";i:3;s:5:"stuff";i:5;s:4:"make";i:3;s:5:"bunch";i:3;s:4:"well";i:3;s:6:"intent";i:4;s:4:"read";i:3;s:4:"felt";i:3;s:6:"vomits";i:4;s:7:"writing";i:3;s:5:"write";i:3;s:4:"need";i:6;s:4:"sort";i:3;s:4:"part";i:4;s:4:"know";i:4;s:6:"common";i:6;s:6:"figure";i:4;s:9:"elaborate";i:3;s:8:"artiface";i:4;s:5:"it'll";i:3;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
---
Yesterday when me and my wife were at the airport sending my parents off, I had a brain wave at some point– I can&#8217;t remember what triggered it exactly– but I turned to her and said, we really gotta start waking up early. As in, not just keep talking about it, but actually wake up early. Like, set an alarm at a fixed time and both get our asses out of bed together. And she agreed. It&#8217;s something we&#8217;ve both been talking about sorta doing for the longest time, and so we finally did it. We woke up at 6am today. She went for a run almost immediately. I decided that I wanted to do a word vomit and instead spent over an hour procrastinating on the Internet. A little silly, my bad. But I don&#8217;t want to beat myself up over it. The point was that I wanted to wake up early. I&#8217;m going to finish this vomit then I&#8217;m going to head out for a run of my own.

The interesting thing to note is how different my mood is. I&#8217;m working on firing myself up now, but yesterday night I was super wired and driven, and this morning when I woke up I still had some of that residual stuff but most of it isn&#8217;t quite there. And this is the reality of the situation, of the life that I inhabit. And I have to learn to cope with this. Ok the sun is coming up, I&#8217;m just going to go and run first and finish up this vomit later. The point I wanted to make was&#8230; there&#8217;s this constant &#8216;handshake&#8217; going on, this passing over of emotional state from person to person within me.

_

Back from my run! It&#8217;s always a bit of a struggle. My shins still hurt. I spend a bunch of time getting distracted again, it&#8217;s now 10am. Well, I woke at 6am. Lingered until&#8230; 730. Went for my run, got back and it was about 815 or so. I&#8217;m not very functional after my run– very sweaty, heart rate very elevated.

_

Okay, now I&#8217;m at work and so I&#8217;m just going to go really fast through this vomit, finish it and publish it. [1]

Intent: I want to quickly sketch out the range of emotions and states I&#8217;ve experienced from yesterday. So– I visitedmy family at the airport, went home, read a book on the bus, felt motivated, dashed off a bunch of &#8216;high emotional energy&#8217; vomits, went to bed with a strong intent of waking early. Then I woke early today, and I was intent on writing vomits and going for a run. I wasn&#8217;t super specific about how many vomits I wanted to write– I was hoping to write a few. But I barely got started, while I languished in distraction. This is a normal thing, especially when I&#8217;ve just awoken. I don&#8217;t have very much agency when I&#8217;ve just awoken. On hindsight, I probably shouldn&#8217;t have bothered with the vomit. I should&#8217;ve gone for my run. Or if I did want to do a vomit, I should ritualize it better. Maybe I should make a cup of tea and write without the wifi on– this is definitely something that&#8217;s doable when I&#8217;m writing in the early morning. Don&#8217;t need no internet then.

I sort of lazed around a little more. A part of me felt like I deserved it, because I successfully woke up early. That&#8217;s a new thing, that&#8217;s a good thing. I think I felt like that was my reward. Which is understandable, but probably not a good idea in the long run. I need to find some alternative reward. Maybe I should read a book instead. Random Interneting in the morning is always a bad idea. I think. When is it appropriate to random-Internet? Earlier I was thinking that I already know everything I need to know. But part of that is– I know a bunch of movies that I should watch and books I should read. And I find myself wanting to do research about those movies and books. Fine. Why was I on reddit and imgur, then? No excuses there. Reddit occasionally has gems but for the most part it&#8217;s a sort of common town square. And I&#8217;m not interested in common stuff. Well no, that&#8217;s not true. Common stuff is interesting. Robin Dunbar pointed out that language, gossip, and &#8220;common stuff&#8221; is the social currency that&#8217;s critical to our functioning as a social species. So there will always be an impulse to indulge in common stuff. There&#8217;s nothing bad or shameful about that.

What matters is having priorities. Knowing what comes first. Rather than try to figure out &#8220;what time of the day is it appropriate to let loose&#8221;, I shoudl figure out &#8220;how do I make sure that I fulfill my obligations every day&#8221;– and having done that, THEN I can let loose without any guilt, and without having to construct this sort of elaborate artiface where I have to figure out what is acceptable and what is not. Because you know damn well goddamnit that the elaborate artiface is actually a farce– it&#8217;s like getting drunk so you can pretend you weren&#8217;t responsible for what you did. The elaborate artiface is built when sober, and disregarded when tired, exhausted, out of willpower, facing something difficult or annoying.

So yeah. I can simplify my life. I can throw out the artiface. All I need to do is figure out what my obligations are, and what I need to do to fulfill them. And then do them, of course– that&#8217;s the most important part. But it&#8217;s a far simpler mode of operating, I need to acknowledge that. It&#8217;ll let me get more done with less annoyance and stress. It&#8217;s cleaner.

And I&#8217;m tired of the old complexity, it tires me more than my clunky old writing. So let&#8217;s get to work.

\_____

[1] Here I realize I was going to say, &#8220;What I wanted to do with this vomit is this&#8221;. I realize that that&#8217;s going to be a common thing throughout these vomits, and it&#8217;ll be rather annoying over time. It&#8217;ll be a waste of words. So for brevity, moving forward I&#8217;ll instead use the phrase Intent.