---
id: 9436
title: 0381 – fuck fear
date: 2015-06-21T16:49:13+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://visakanv.com/1000/?p=9436
permalink: /0381
readability_ARI:
  - "0.6"
readability_CLI:
  - "3"
readability_LIX:
  - "18.2"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1106"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:569:"a:34:{s:6:"afraid";i:12;s:7:"thought";i:3;s:9:"confident";i:3;s:4:"just";i:7;s:4:"good";i:8;s:10:"pretending";i:3;s:4:"look";i:8;s:4:"life";i:6;s:7:"realize";i:5;s:4:"like";i:7;s:5:"think";i:3;s:6:"skinny";i:3;s:4:"real";i:3;s:7:"running";i:3;s:5:"going";i:11;s:4:"know";i:3;s:7:"prepare";i:3;s:6:"things";i:6;s:7:"because";i:4;s:4:"make";i:3;s:4:"give";i:4;s:9:"imaginary";i:3;s:4:"shit";i:4;s:4:"fear";i:5;s:5:"worse";i:3;s:4:"need";i:4;s:5:"worry";i:4;s:4:"fuck";i:3;s:5:"spend";i:3;s:6:"dreams";i:3;s:6:"stupid";i:4;s:5:"let's";i:14;s:5:"apart";i:3;s:4:"want";i:7;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
tags:
  - directives
---
When did I first start becoming afraid? I thought I was a confident person, I thought I had it all. There are loads of people who&#8217;ve told me that I was one of the more confident persons they knew, but of course that was all just performance. I got good at pretending I was confident. I got good at pretending that I didn&#8217;t care. I got so good at it that I convinced myself, too. I convinced myself that I was not afraid. But when I look back on my life, when I look at what I used to do, and how much I left undone, I realize I must have been afraid. I must have felt unworthy. I must have felt like it was not my time.

I remember now, when I look back. I was afraid that the guys in the gym would think I was too skinny to belong there. I was afraid that I wasn&#8217;t a real runner, and that me running would look silly. I&#8217;m gangly and skinny– I had skinny legs and I looked like a joke in my running shorts. Well, I don&#8217;t care anymore. I look like a joke, so be it. I&#8217;m taking responsibility for my life. I&#8217;m going to run anyway. If somebody&#8217;s going to laugh at me, good for them. I&#8217;m happy to provide others with entertainment. That&#8217;s all part of the joy of the experience.

I don&#8217;t know how to swim and I&#8217;ve been afraid to admit it. Once I&#8217;m done with my running and I finish my run test, I&#8217;m going to be hitting the weights. I&#8217;m going to be going to the pool and I&#8217;m going to figure out how to swim. I&#8217;ve always been afraid of the kitchen and of food preparation. But I can prepare eggs now. I can cook chicken now. I&#8217;m going to cook more things. I&#8217;m going to wake up early every day. Why am I afraid to confront each day? Because I think that it&#8217;s going to be painful? It doesn&#8217;t make sense. I didn&#8217;t think it through. I didn&#8217;t give it much real thought. I didn&#8217;t use the light of my consciousness to attack the problem. Because when I put the light in there I realize that it&#8217;s bullshit. I realize that it&#8217;s all imaginary. Once I get rid of all that imaginary shit, it&#8217;s just me versus reality. And reality is hard and painful but it isn&#8217;t nearly as scary as I&#8217;ve been making it out to be. I can get knocked down I can get knocked out. I can rip my skin up. I can get injured– and even those injuries are preventable and avoidable, so the fear of injury is misguided. It&#8217;s far worse to be weak. It&#8217;s far worse to be powerless. And I&#8217;m going to become powerful. I already am powerful, I just need to realize it.

My emotional state is mine to control. Mine to regulate. Mine to move around. Mind to play with. It&#8217;s my playground. I have to stop pretending that life is somehow beyond me. That I&#8217;m not ready for life. I am. I&#8217;m here right now. Come at me, bro. I know that it can get a lot worse, but I doubt it&#8217;s going to happen anytime soon. You might hit me with cancer or a car accident or something horrible like that, but those are not the things that I&#8217;m afraid of, am I? Those aren&#8217;t even things on my radar. What am I afraid of, then? Why am I not bigger already? Why am I not stronger already? Because I worry about how I&#8217;d look? Because I worry about what I sound like? I deserve more than this. I can wake up happy and excited every day. I just need to do the work. I just need to prepare for it. If I know that I&#8217;ve given it my all, then I don&#8217;t have anything to worry about. I can prepare for all the possible outcomes. It&#8217;s much more fun and interesting that worrying about what the fuck everybody else is doing– who gives a shit? Why do I give a shit? It&#8217;s distractions! It&#8217;s worry! It&#8217;s an illusion. It&#8217;s not real. I have to remind myself of this every single day. I have powers and talents within me that I haven&#8217;t even begun to reach for yet, and this is me reaching. This is me believing.

What was I afraid of? What am I afraid of? The greater fear is that I will spend one single day in fear and weakness. That I will spend one day hesitating. That I will spend one day not giving it my best. And I have already done enough of that. I&#8217;ve gotten a lifetime&#8217;s supply of &#8220;What if?&#8221; and &#8220;I&#8217;m not good enough.&#8221; It doesn&#8217;t matter. I can move forward with what I have, now. I can do more, now. I can realize my dreams, now. I can prove to myself that I am capable of more. It&#8217;s okay to look stupid. Let&#8217;s do stupid. Let&#8217;s look as stupid as possible. Let&#8217;s screw up. Let&#8217;s make a bunch of mistakes. Let&#8217;s go. Let&#8217;s fuck shit up. Let&#8217;s get ourselves embarrassed. Let&#8217;s feel silly. Let&#8217;s feel stupid. Let&#8217;s do all of those things. We are ready and able to do beautiful things, so let&#8217;s just do them!

The doubt is a lie. The fear is a lie. It&#8217;s imaginary. It&#8217;s constructed. It&#8217;s arbitrary. Let&#8217;s deconstruct it. Let&#8217;s tear it apart. Let&#8217;s destroy it. All of this is like graffiti on a bunch of old boards. We don&#8217;t need to address them one by one. We can just rip them apart and tear them apart. What do I want to be remembered for? I want to be remembered as a grinder. As a machine. As ap erson who fought like crazy. Who did not give up, did not give in. Life is a lot more interesting that way. We&#8217;ve spent time and energy trying to have a good experience in video games. Good experiences being entertained. Well, there&#8217;s no higher entertainment than a good life.

I have dreams. I have goals. And I&#8217;m almost embarrassed or ashamed to I let those things fade. I still have these fucking dreams. They still matter. I still want to be a published author. I still want to write. I still want to make a difference to somebody. I still want to tell the truth. I still want to find something worth saying. I will be hungry. I will take it. I will take it all. I am relentless.

Fuck fear.