---
id: 9482
title: 0396 – publish crap
date: 2015-07-05T09:23:47+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://visakanv.com/1000/?p=9482
permalink: /0396
readability_ARI:
  - "7.2"
readability_CLI:
  - "6.7"
readability_LIX:
  - "27.1"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1039"
word_stats_keywords:
  - 's:547:"a:33:{s:4:"half";i:4;s:5:"going";i:7;s:5:"write";i:3;s:7:"problem";i:6;s:4:"make";i:3;s:5:"stuff";i:3;s:4:"like";i:9;s:5:"least";i:3;s:8:"probably";i:3;s:4:"read";i:3;s:6:"little";i:3;s:4:"know";i:5;s:4:"work";i:4;s:7:"because";i:4;s:5:"right";i:4;s:7:"project";i:4;s:4:"want";i:5;s:4:"time";i:4;s:7:"started";i:3;s:5:"wrong";i:3;s:5:"maybe";i:3;s:4:"well";i:3;s:4:"feel";i:4;s:8:"feelings";i:3;s:4:"need";i:3;s:5:"think";i:4;s:7:"publish";i:4;s:5:"vomit";i:4;s:10:"publishing";i:10;s:4:"part";i:3;s:4:"crap";i:7;s:4:"true";i:4;s:7:"picture";i:4;}";'
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
---
I&#8217;m approaching 400 word vomits now, which is a nice milestone but it isn&#8217;t even half of everything that I&#8217;m going to have to write. And I realize that I have a bit of a problem. I anticipated that this problem would arise, and that I would have to deal with it, but it&#8217;s now becoming very real: the problem of how to make sense of all the stuff that I&#8217;ve written. It looks like I&#8217;m going to have to at least scan through everything, and realistically I&#8217;m probably going to have to read all of them again.

Why does this trouble or bother me? Why does it make me a little bit uncomfortable? I knew that I was looking forward to it, and I know that if I&#8217;m going to write my best work, I&#8217;m going to have to reference the best of my old stuff. Everything is in a bit of a mess and I ought to at least tidy it up into little piles. I suppose I&#8217;m not doing it because it seems like something that will be painful and unrewarding. And I&#8217;m hesitant to do it right now because it sounds like a massive project, and I don&#8217;t want to get embroiled in a massive project on a Sunday afternoon when I know I have work to do tomorrow, and I should spend at least some of my time preparing for work.

So I guess this is a project management problem. I have to quickly figure out how I&#8217;m going to navigate this problem, and then I have to get started and make little dents. I sort of tried getting started before, I have bits and pieces of it in my Workflowy– I&#8217;ve only really analyzed 1-50. And I&#8217;m wondering if that&#8217;s the wrong approach. The right approach might be to look for sequences and trains of thought. Argh, I don&#8217;t know for sure! I shouldn&#8217;t be thinking about this so much. I should maybe just start reading again and take notes again.

Well maybe not right now. Well– why not right now? LOL. I spent a bunch of time today doing not-very-much. I don&#8217;t feel bad about it, I feel like it&#8217;s me recharging. But at the same time I know that my feelings are not entirely reliable and are often wrong. So I need to be very careful– a lot more careful than I typically think I need to be.

(I am feeling a sense of boredom and mild annoyance as I write this. This is not what I want to be writing. I should be able to skip ahead to something else. What is it that I want to skip ahead to?)

Well&#8230; I have some time left for the day. I&#8217;d like to sleep and wake early. I&#8217;d to do some preparation for work, and I&#8217;d like to publish a word vomit so I would&#8217;ve kept the chain going. The idea of publishing a &#8220;dud&#8221; vomit always feels a bit frustrating, like I&#8217;m cheating somehow. But I need to realize that publishing duds as part of a consistent streak is way, way, WAY better than not publishing anything. Crap I can always filter out later on.

The problem is that when I&#8217;m so worried about not publishing crap that I don&#8217;t publish anything at all. It might FEEL like I&#8217;ve somehow avoided publishing crap, but as long as I&#8217;m not publishing anything, I&#8217;m not publishing anything. If I had been content and eager to publish crap and published a vomit a day since I started, I would almost be done with this project by now. There is no doubt in my mind that alongside the extra crap would be extra gems, and I would have already learned something from these gems by now, and these learnings would compound as I go along.

So my fear of publishing crap is ultimately damaging in a way that I do not perceive. This isn&#8217;t a new insight but it isn&#8217;t one that&#8217;s close to my heart, it isn&#8217;t something that I feel viscerally in my bones. I imagine it&#8217;s something like that thing I once read about pilots needing to rely on instruments rather than their feelings, because their feelings are wrong, and professional / high-functioning pilots develop the ability to transpose or rewire their intuitions to listen to be more attuned to the instruments than to their gut feeling. It&#8217;s a bit more complicated than that and I&#8217;m not doing it justice, but the point is&#8230; there are powerful truths that I know to be true intellectually, when I hear them and read them and think them I agree, &#8220;Yeah, that&#8217;s true,&#8221; but in day-to-day functioning I haven&#8217;t yet internalized them.

Part of internalizing them requires me to repeat these things over and over again, but that&#8217;s not the whole picture. It&#8217;s probably way less than half of the picture. I&#8217;m guessing the next fat chunk of the picture (intuitively I want to say &#8220;the other half of the picture&#8221;, but again, my intuition is probably broken and it might not be an even 50% half– it might be 80%, or it might be 20% with another mysterious 60% that I&#8217;m not aware of yet, such is the nature of constantly recalibrating expectations) will be implementing actions. Taking actions, doing things that are consistent with the truths that I believe to be true, that I say I believe to be true. A tiny part of that means publishing everyday, including publishing crap. And maybe I&#8217;ll publish a vomit or two after this, but clearly the next steps after that involves taking steps that I have said I want to take that I have not taken yet, for some reason or another.

I suppose there&#8217;s a lot I can learn from paying attention to how other people similar to me talk about these situations. I haven&#8217;t gotten around to reading my own stuff– again, why? Am I bored? Why do I think it&#8217;s boring? My own writing should be way more interesting to me than 99% of anything I can find– because it&#8217;s full of opportunities for me to better myself. I should think about that for a while.