---
id: 7842
title: '0116 &#8211; writer&#8217;s &#8220;block&#8221;'
date: 2013-12-23T12:07:33+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://www.visakanv.com/blog/?p=7842
permalink: /0116
readability_ARI:
  - "7.3"
readability_CLI:
  - "8"
readability_LIX:
  - "28.4"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1049"
word_stats_keywords:
  - 's:420:"a:25:{s:7:"thought";i:3;s:4:"able";i:3;s:5:"think";i:11;s:4:"life";i:3;s:4:"want";i:3;s:7:"writing";i:4;s:6:"family";i:3;s:4:"know";i:3;s:4:"just";i:3;s:6:"system";i:5;s:8:"practice";i:3;s:5:"write";i:5;s:4:"work";i:4;s:7:"because";i:7;s:5:"aside";i:3;s:4:"time";i:6;s:5:"plans";i:7;s:5:"angry";i:3;s:6:"better";i:3;s:5:"badly";i:4;s:4:"made";i:5;s:4:"well";i:3;s:4:"good";i:4;s:14:"oversimplistic";i:3;s:5:"goals";i:3;}";'
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
---
It&#8217;s been a full month since I last published something. When I started out I naively thought that I&#8217;d be able to publish two vomits every weekday and maybe three on the weekends. I think there HAVE been days when I&#8217;ve written 3 or 4 vomits, but I vastly overestimate myself, over and over. I overpromise and under-deliver, which leads to me living an uncomfortable life of lies and inaccuracy. I am increasingly clear that that&#8217;s not how I want to live my life in the future.

Why haven&#8217;t I been writing? Some family stuff cropped up that I didn&#8217;t know how to handle, and this external stressor just demolished my existing system. My fitness routine, reading habit and guitar practice all suffered too. I haven&#8217;t been able to write anything for Poached either, and it&#8217;s been a struggle just to stay on top of my work.

I have always been uncertain about how to operate when you&#8217;re writing about things that could potentially impinge on others. I remember when Lilly Singh uploaded a video about her family life and then promptly took it down, presumably because her family was unhappy about it. I don&#8217;t know. I don&#8217;t know and so I clamp up and get blocked, because I can&#8217;t possibly write about X when my mind is heavily preoccupied with Y. I suppose on hindsight the solution might be to write anonymously, say with a throwaway account on Reddit, or maybe to write fiction. I have little to no experience with either.

Anyway I don&#8217;t want to think about that too much right now- it makes me uncomfortable and I don&#8217;t have the luxury of going through that when I have work to do. That is something I can&#8217;t resolve in a vomit- I&#8217;ll need to set aside time to write, think, edit, revise, reflect, meditate. While I call it a luxury- because it requires time and focus- it&#8217;s also a necessity, because I won&#8217;t be able to operate at 100% until it is resolved. In this regard it is much like an injury.

So setting that aside for a while I think the most important thing for me to learn here is the importance of redundancy, of reserves, of deep assets, of emergency routines, structures, backup plans. Here I think I am arriving at an insight that only comes to me in times of difficulty, which I need to preserve to inform my &#8220;peacetime operations&#8221;. An analogy:

If I were a nation-state I&#8217;d be screwed, because I wouldn&#8217;t have a standing army or strategic reserves. I&#8217;d be a straight-talker, saying what I mean even if it offends people. This will inevitably get me in trouble. The problem is, I&#8217;m unable to empathize with venomous, grudge-holding people. I forget that they exist at all. I don&#8217;t hold grudges. I&#8217;m just not predisposed to.

I remember that there were moments as a child where I wanted to get angry and stay angry with myself (typically for getting into trouble at school), or with my parents (for trying to discipline me). &#8220;I&#8217;ll show them,&#8221; I&#8217;d mouth angrily in the mirror. It would never last- I&#8217;d stop caring about it the next day. Everything fades away, everything will turn to nothing, why be angry?

I sometimes think my akrasia- my inability to follow my own instructions- comes from a deeper wisdom that knows better than my short-sighted, fleeting ambitions. I trusted
  
&#8216;chaos and randomness&#8217; because they were easier to accept than badly made plans, or well-made bad plans, or well-made good plans that were badly timed, or badly executed&#8230; I would have to take the blame for all of it, and it seemed silly and wrong.

I responded to the systems&#8217; oversimplistic grand plans with an oversimplistic heterodoxy- my plan was to reject the plan that was foisted upon me. I have more in common with Republicans than I thought.

It is clear to me today that my approach was oversimplistic, and that there are costs to my Diogenesian lifestyle that weren&#8217;t obvious then.

Quick parallel aside: when I look at my writing from 2009 to early 2012, I see a writer who has too much time on his hands, who presumes too much of his audience. I wrote in a sprawling, tedious manner. It was self-indulgent and unnecessarily ornate. I&#8217;m still less succinct than I could be, but now I&#8217;m pressed for time- I&#8217;m writing this on my morning commute. The biggest difference is practice, of course- the more you practice, the more you develop your aesthetic sensibility, and the more you get frustrated with unnecessary elements. I think the second biggest difference- for me, at least- is the fact that I have real commitments and obligations now; bills to pay, work to do.

Let me restate that: I think the constraints of being a working adult is forcing me to become a better writer, because I have to say more with less. I don&#8217;t have the time for long drawn out arguments on Facebook anymore- those were like little scrappy catfights more for personal entertainment and minor social point-scoring than the fundamental development of my craft. It helped, I think, but it wasn&#8217;t optimal. Still, suboptimal progress is better than optimal fantasy.

Let&#8217;s return to this idea of the random/chaos lifestyle. I thought I was being free and wild but I wasn&#8217;t- I was in suboptimal routines of my own. I didn&#8217;t grow and develop as much as I could&#8217;ve. As Scott Adams put it, losers have goals, winners have systems. I rejected goals, but I failed to build a good system. There&#8217;s the rub. The absence of goals does not make a good system. A good system has to be carefully crafted.

Earlier I talked about badly made plans, well-made bad plans, etc. All of those can be avoided through a gradually built system (as robust as possible) for navigating complexity, for exploring the unknown. It can be done, and I think I&#8217;ve done a bit of it by accident over time- that&#8217;s what experience is, that&#8217;s what wisdom is. But I think it can also be pursued and built deliberately, and that&#8217;s what I want to do.

Ok I got to work, continue in the evening