---
id: 8839
title: 0184 – What moves me?
date: 2014-11-01T03:30:42+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://visakanv.com/1000/?p=8839
permalink: /0184
readability_ARI:
  - "4.6"
readability_CLI:
  - "6.3"
readability_LIX:
  - "23.7"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1133"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:544:"a:32:{s:5:"write";i:4;s:4:"used";i:3;s:5:"think";i:8;s:10:"discipline";i:8;s:8:"actually";i:5;s:7:"writing";i:3;s:4:"care";i:3;s:4:"just";i:11;s:4:"want";i:13;s:4:"talk";i:6;s:6:"really";i:6;s:4:"life";i:3;s:4:"know";i:5;s:5:"can't";i:5;s:5:"great";i:3;s:6:"things";i:5;s:6:"people";i:8;s:9:"beautiful";i:3;s:4:"lost";i:3;s:4:"like";i:4;s:6:"deeply";i:3;s:5:"let's";i:3;s:4:"make";i:3;s:5:"money";i:3;s:10:"synthesize";i:5;s:9:"happiness";i:5;s:4:"work";i:6;s:7:"because";i:3;s:5:"world";i:3;s:7:"inspire";i:3;s:7:"smoking";i:4;s:4:"quit";i:3;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
tags:
  - discipline
  - happiness
  - motivation
  - purpose
---
I was about to write &#8220;I used to think that developing discipline would cramp my improvisational style&#8221;, but then I had to stop myself. I took a dive recently through [my old blogposts in 2007](http://www.visakanv.com/archives), and they revealed that that actually isn&#8217;t true. I&#8217;ve actually always been writing about how I think I ought to be more disciplined.

Why is that? Why do I keep writing about how I ought to be more discplined, yet never get around to actually being discplined?

The pragmatic, realist answer (which is a little unkind, but valid and important) is that I don&#8217;t actually care about discipline at all. I just want to talk about it. It&#8217;s far less effort to talk about discipline than to actually buckle up and get around to doing it.

I think there&#8217;s truth in that, but I think it&#8217;s a little more complicated than that, too. If I really didn&#8217;t care about discipline at all, I should&#8217;ve made my peace with it and just said fuck it, this is who I am, this is how I&#8217;m going to spend my life and I&#8217;m fine with that. And I&#8217;ve tried that on for a while. That didn&#8217;t sit easy with me either. I know that you can&#8217;t achieve greatness by bumming around, and I know that I want to do great things in my life. Just for the fun of it, just out of curiosity. Not so much to &#8220;prove things to people&#8221;, but more&#8230; to experience greater and more beautiful and interesting interpretations of reality.

### searching in the light when you lost it in the dark

So why not develop discipline after talking about it so much, if it wasn&#8217;t purely fiction? I think most of it was that I just didn&#8217;t really know how to start. So writing about &#8220;how I used to think&#8221; is a familiar point to return to and circle around, like a drunk looking for his keys under the streetlight even though he lost his keys in the dark. I return over and over again to what I know. I regroup after being slightly lost. I start over at the starting point. I&#8217;m really, really good at starting over, it seems.

Re: learning discipline. I couldn&#8217;t follow instructions in the abstract, and I couldn&#8217;t follow instructions to do something that didn&#8217;t deeply feel important or meaningful to me. If I am to develop discipline, I think, it can only be in service of goals that deeply move me.

And these can&#8217;t just be nice-sounding goals, like &#8220;oh, let&#8217;s get disciplined and study hard and get a degree so that i can make lots of money&#8221;- I don&#8217;t give a shit about money, I can synthesize happiness without it. It&#8217;s far easier to synthesize happiness than to work towards material things that would make me happy.

### So why bother then?

Why not just sit on my ass and synthesize happiness all day? Because I&#8217;ve tried that, and it&#8217;s not enough for me. It doesn&#8217;t work well for me. I have to bother because there are times where I am pained, disgusted and frustrated by injustice, or by my own inability to do anything about a situation. This is exercabated by the fact that I&#8217;m short-sighted with regards to time- if something really upsets and bothers me, I tend to rationalize it away very quickly. And then I get upset and bothered again the next time that happens. And this happens over and over again. It&#8217;s a kind of super-mild Alzhiemers, almost. (I hope that&#8217;s not insulting or demeaning&#8230;) Or some sort of groundhog day. I go through the same thing over and over. Eventually the pattern becomes undeniable, untenable, and just ugly. I don&#8217;t want to feel that way anymore. I don&#8217;t want to be that way into my late 20s, into my 30s. 24 is old enough.

I can synthesize happiness for most things and deal with most nonsense&#8230; but I guess it doesn&#8217;t work when other people enter the equation. I can&#8217;t synthesize happiness for other people. I can delude myself, but I can&#8217;t delude other people. One shitty solution is to surround yourself with other delusional people (I think this is what alcoholics do, too? and smokers)- you &#8216;fix&#8217; the problem by entering an environment where it&#8217;s no longer a problem. Which would be fine, if it didn&#8217;t have long-term health repercussions, if it didn&#8217;t limit you in some other way that you&#8217;d like to express yourself.

What do I really care about? What do I want to do that deeply moves me?

### I want to help smart, talented people (who don&#8217;t believe in themselves) do great work.

Because they&#8217;re everywhere around me. I&#8217;ve had this conversation with many, many people over the years. I joke that we&#8217;re neither eagles nor pigeons. We&#8217;re like, the middle child of the developed world. But I realize I can&#8217;t give them confidence by talking to them. I have to demonstrate by example that it&#8217;s possible. And even then I won&#8217;t get all of them. But I want to try. I want to inspire my wife. I want to inspire my friends. I want to inspire my colleagues. I want to see what we&#8217;re capable of.

I want to see more beautiful art in the world, or to flip that on its head, I don&#8217;t want to die without seeing the amazing work that I know my wife and some of my friends and millions of people around the world are capable of. All we have is this brief moment, and then it&#8217;s all gone. Let&#8217;s have some fun while we&#8217;re here. Let&#8217;s make something beautiful and amazing while we&#8217;re here. Life is one big trip. If the trip&#8217;s not working out, we just need to change the set and the setting, and focus on different things&#8230; we can get more out of it. And we ought to. <3

Needs more details but I&#8217;m tired and we&#8217;re over 1100 words&#8230; will followup in the next one, maybe.

Notes

[1] This reminds me a lot of my talk about studying, my talk about work, and my talk about smoking, most of all. I used to talk about quitting smoking, yet I didn&#8217;t quit. I kept smoking. And I&#8217;d write blogposts about what cigarettes taught me, and I&#8217;d write about how much I enjoyed cigarettes&#8230; and yet I&#8217;d also write about how I wish I could quit, how much money I was going to save, what a great plan it was to quit smoking. I finally stopped about 16 weeks ago. Over 110 days smoke-free. Can I do the same for discipline? I believe I can. I just need, theoretically speaking, another Jason Mraz + Easyway instance. Maybe? We&#8217;ll see. I&#8217;ll just keep that in mind.