---
id: 9618
title: 0434 – go somewhere new
date: 2015-07-30T16:14:08+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://visakanv.com/1000/?p=9618
permalink: /0434
readability_ARI:
  - "5"
readability_CLI:
  - "6.6"
readability_LIX:
  - "25.4"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1075"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:526:"a:32:{s:5:"tired";i:4;s:7:"writing";i:9;s:8:"thoughts";i:9;s:4:"past";i:3;s:6:"vomits";i:5;s:4:"time";i:9;s:4:"sure";i:5;s:4:"part";i:5;s:5:"write";i:5;s:5:"vomit";i:4;s:5:"think";i:8;s:4:"sort";i:5;s:8:"thinking";i:5;s:4:"make";i:3;s:4:"work";i:3;s:4:"just";i:7;s:6:"really";i:6;s:5:"going";i:5;s:7:"there's";i:3;s:4:"talk";i:3;s:4:"care";i:3;s:5:"maybe";i:3;s:4:"know";i:8;s:5:"needs";i:3;s:6:"things";i:4;s:4:"feel";i:3;s:4:"like";i:4;s:9:"questions";i:3;s:7:"project";i:3;s:4:"real";i:3;s:8:"whatever";i:4;s:4:"true";i:3;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
---
I&#8217;m getting tired of writing about the thoughts on my mind the way I&#8217;ve been doing for the past 400 vomits or so. (Somewhere between 30% of the time to 70% of the time. I&#8217;m not sure, I haven&#8217;t exactly been tallying this carefully.)

Part of this is straight up boredom. I&#8217;m tired of reading the same old shit. And even now as I write this I&#8217;m recalling that I once wrote a vomit titled &#8220;sick and tired of being sick and tired&#8221; or something to that effect.

But I think the more important part is– I&#8217;m starting to recognize the thoughts of my mind as products of my past. They&#8217;re sort of&#8230; legacy issues. I&#8217;m still thinking old thoughts, in an old way, somehow. They&#8217;re suboptimal.

A part of the motivation of doing these vomits was the belief that I&#8217;d have a bunch of written thoughts that I can subsequently analyze and make sense of, and do therapy with myself. I think the first part of that goal has been achieved– I think I have a large enough body of work about my own thoughts that&#8217;s ripe for me to analyze. I just haven&#8217;t really done the analysis yet, which I am now committing to doing concurrently as I write 1 vomit a day.

While that&#8217;s going on, I think there&#8217;s also a sort of &#8216;dangerous&#8217; situation where– the more I talk about my old thoughts, the more I keep them active and alive. When you truly quit smoking, for example, you shouldn&#8217;t be spending all your time talking about smoking. You should be pretty much indifferent to them if possible. They shouldn&#8217;t bother you, you shouldn&#8217;t need to care about them. Maybe I&#8217;m being overly idealistic here.

So&#8230; for the time being, my old thoughts are in semi-cold storage. I won&#8217;t indulge them by recreating them over and over again by writing about them over and over again. I might write some meta-analysis about the older vomits.

Well, I don&#8217;t know. As always, I never quite seem to be sure of what I can trust myself with, of what I can promise myself. This is something that needs to change.

I was quite productive at work today. I was making a deliberate effort to measure and manage my time throughout the day. It was interesting. I took longer than I thought I would&#8217;ve (to write a substantial blogpost). I suppose on hindsight that&#8217;s completely unsurprising. I chronically overestimate my own ability to do things that I haven&#8217;t done before.

Ugh, even now I feel like I&#8217;m just writing stuff I&#8217;ve said before. I know, I know, everything is a remix. I was just thinking earlier as I was in my kitchen about how I&#8217;m either going to answer the questions I&#8217;ve raised in past vomits but haven&#8217;t answered yet, or go all out different and maybe start writing short stories and fiction within this very word vomit project. I haven&#8217;t quite figured out what I want.

Deja vu– the last time I tried to figure out what I wanted while putting myself on the spot in the context of a vomit, I was stuck, too, but I ended up writing dialogue for the next few vomits after that. I think that was in the early 300s. What will I do this time? My subconscious will think about it. But yes, let&#8217;s make that a rule. I&#8217;ll go through my old questions, answer all those old questions, but beyond that I&#8217;m really going to try not to bother writing all these&#8230;

Uh, again halfway through a sentence I find myself thinking that doesn&#8217;t quite feel right. Groping and stumbling everywhere. We&#8217;ll find our way through.

I know it&#8217;s not in my place to write big grand theories of the world and so on. I&#8217;m actually not all that interested in Singapore&#8217;s general election 2016, while I was so crazy about 2011. Why? Am I for real when I say that? Will I flip flop about this once the election actually comes? I don&#8217;t know, but it&#8217;ll be interesting to witness. I don&#8217;t think I&#8217;ll be writing blogposts the way I did back in 2011, unless there&#8217;s some issue where I feel like I have a unique and valuable perspective that I can share with minimal effort on my part, that would make a difference to people.

But even that&#8217;s really just entertainment and distraction rather than some sort of civic duty. Saying things like &#8220;my country needs me&#8221; is not very verifiable. I mean&#8230; sure, my country needs me&#8230; I don&#8217;t know, man. Everything is made up. Everything is imagined. Reality is that which remains when you stop believing in it. So what do I believe? I don&#8217;t know what to believe anymore. What do I care about? I don&#8217;t know what to care about anymore. The last time I felt myself thinking these thoughts, I was feeling really down, really in a funk,  almost depressed. This time I&#8217;m thinking these same thoughts but with a light, airy sort of indifference. There&#8217;s a space for me to navigate around all of this, and I can do whatever I want. BUT I&#8217;m limited by all these basic silly little appetites and bullshit. I&#8217;m limited by my constant craving for useless information.

Why is it that if something is true, or real, I have some sort of impulse to go and share it with somebody else? Why can&#8217;t I just embody whatever is true, and enjoy whatever is real and true, for myself, and show it through my work? I think I can. I just haven&#8217;t gotten around to it yet. I&#8217;m just overexplaining myself because I like the sound of my own voice, maybe. Which I&#8217;m sure is something I&#8217;ve said before. And is always rather ironic to bring up in the context of a writing project. I&#8217;m not going to stop my writing project until it&#8217;s done, so at worst we&#8217;re going to have another 550,000 words of me talking about how much my talk is worthless.

Well, if that really turns out to be the case, I&#8217;m sure it&#8217;ll put me off worthless talk for the rest of my life. Whatever. I&#8217;ve committed to this and I&#8217;m seeing it through. There will be serendipitous good things coming out of this that I can&#8217;t anticipate yet. And even if not, fuck it, there are stupider things to commit to.

Ayy lmao.