---
id: 9527
title: 0403 – missed a vomit
date: 2015-07-11T18:45:25+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://visakanv.com/1000/?p=9527
permalink: /0403
readability_ARI:
  - "4.6"
readability_CLI:
  - "5.5"
readability_LIX:
  - "23.1"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1081"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:542:"a:33:{s:4:"word";i:5;s:5:"vomit";i:5;s:6:"trying";i:4;s:4:"keep";i:6;s:6:"streak";i:5;s:5:"going";i:9;s:5:"daily";i:5;s:4:"sick";i:3;s:4:"days";i:3;s:7:"writing";i:3;s:6:"really";i:3;s:4:"just";i:5;s:4:"long";i:6;s:4:"time";i:4;s:4:"fail";i:3;s:5:"month";i:3;s:8:"everyday";i:4;s:4:"like";i:3;s:4:"work";i:7;s:4:"give";i:3;s:6:"things";i:3;s:4:"late";i:5;s:4:"felt";i:3;s:9:"should've";i:4;s:5:"guess";i:3;s:7:"working";i:4;s:7:"because";i:3;s:7:"earlier";i:3;s:6:"sleepy";i:3;s:5:"sleep";i:3;s:4:"need";i:3;s:5:"early";i:3;s:6:"waking";i:5;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
---
I failed to publish a word vomit yesterday. I&#8217;ve been trying to keep a streak going. I had a 9 day streak when I first decided to sit down and pay attention to my daily output– and then I fell sick. I didn&#8217;t write for a few days. Then I had a 10 day streak, which I broke yesterday. And I found myself dangerously close to not writing one today, either. I had one going in bits and pieces, but it wasn&#8217;t really going anywhere so I deleted it. Lesson learned– don&#8217;t multi-task when doing word vomits. Sit down, focus, and get it all out in one go. Otherwise it&#8217;s just awkward and disjointed.

I&#8217;m bad at installing new habits. I&#8217;ve been trying to do it for a long time, but I suppose I&#8217;ve been doing it badly, wrongly. In a disjointed way. I don&#8217;t focus long enough, I don&#8217;t keep myself accountable in a consistent way for long enough. I flit from tool to tool, from using an app to a notebook to something else. If I want to make a breakthrough, I&#8217;m going to have to break this down carefully, reflect on what&#8217;s worked so far, and pay attention to how my habit installations fail when they do fail.

So, what&#8217;s changed so far? What have I successfully done? While I haven&#8217;t managed to keep a strong daily word vomit streak going– I&#8217;ve never gone a full month of publishing everyday, which is my goal now that I&#8217;m starting a new streak. I&#8217;d like to publish everyday for the rest of the month, and for all of the month of August.

I&#8217;ve committed to doing a daily work review at the end of each day of work. I&#8217;ve been doing it consistently for four weeks now. The main difference between this and everything else is that I&#8217;ve got some skin in the game– I told a peer I&#8217;d give him $50 if I missed an update, and $250 if I fail to meet my weekly work target. The money just makes it feel more real. Perhaps I should peg $ to other things, too. Perhaps I should tell somebody that I&#8217;d give them $50 if I go a day without publishing a word vomit, barring exceptional circumstances.

What else has changed? Well, I didn&#8217;t have a smartphone until 2 years ago, and now it&#8217;s become a very integral part of my life. I taught myself to smoke and I became a smoker. Social media– I don&#8217;t post as much any more, but I still check on it a lot. I suppose it&#8217;s really easy, and it&#8217;s very accessible. Writing a word vomit is harder. The hard part is getting started and getting a momentum going.

Why didn&#8217;t I write a vomit yesterday? I had slept and woken late, and then I ate out. Went home, felt lazy, bummed around all day. I felt like I should&#8217;ve taken a nap, but I didn&#8217;t. I guess I should&#8217;ve. I felt like I should&#8217;ve meditated, but I didn&#8217;t. I guess I should&#8217;ve. That pattern is very common. Oh, and I was working pretty late because I was procrastinating earlier in the day and didn&#8217;t do enough of what I wanted to do. Why was I procrastinating? I guess I was sleepy. Why was I sleepy? Because I slept late. Why did I sleep late? I&#8217;ve been trying to sleep and wake earlier, I know this is a cornerstone habit that I need to fulfill. My wife and I tried to do this early waking thing regularly, at 6am everyday– and then I fell sick. Being sick for a few days tends to topple any fledgling habits I might be trying to build. I should develop a routine for dealing with that– for making sure that I keep doing everything I want to do after I recover. I managed to keep my work updates going because they were really important and consequential in a direct, immediate way, but everything else just slides away.

So I think the lesson with waking early is&#8230; suddenly waking up at 6am everyday is a bit too much of a shock. What I should do instead is aim to wake up 15 to 30 minutes earlier every day or every couple of days. That way I won&#8217;t feel incredibly lethargic throughout the day, and I wouldn&#8217;t have to rely on caffeine to get through the day. (I was drinking 3 cups a day when I was waking up at 6– usually I drink one after lunch, or in the evening, sometimes two.) So that&#8217;s going to be my next waking early plan.

This is my experience with fitness, too– I tend to &#8220;overdose&#8221;. I get frustrated with how long I go without working out, and I work out too intensively– at the same intensity I was working out at when I was working out regularly. I effectively overdose (instead of using the minimum effective dose! I used to geek out on that concept) and then I suffer for it– which puts me out of commission one way or another. I&#8217;m too sore to work out again for a long time, or I&#8217;m too drowsy to have a good day and end up sleeping late again or just generally feeling unpleasant.

So there. I need to be more calibrated in the way I ease into things after having stopped for a long time. That&#8217;s how I need to optimize for sleep and for exercise, and those two things will give me more clarity to do my daily updates. I do have some highly visible signs that show me whether I&#8217;ve been writing or not– I have a calendar AND a total count on my fridge, and now I&#8217;ve got an app on my phone called Rewire that allows me to keep track of my dailies. Previously I had a problem where I wasn&#8217;t opening the app every day (despite having one of the dailes be &#8220;Use rewire daily&#8221;), but now I&#8217;ve got a widget installed so that I can see the numbers on my phone screen– which I look at and scroll through all the time. So that makes sure that it&#8217;s in my vision.

Going to bed now. I have to work out in the morning. If I&#8217;m sleepy afterwards, I&#8217;ll take a nap. I haven&#8217;t fixed this problem yet, I&#8217;ve just talked about it. I&#8217;ll have to re-evaluate everything again tomorrow. I intend to solve this.