---
id: 9536
title: 0407 – an average day
date: 2015-07-14T17:34:23+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://visakanv.com/1000/?p=9536
permalink: /0407
readability_ARI:
  - "5.8"
readability_CLI:
  - "6.1"
readability_LIX:
  - "24.2"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1120"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:563:"a:34:{s:5:"write";i:7;s:6:"little";i:3;s:4:"want";i:5;s:4:"feel";i:7;s:4:"like";i:8;s:5:"vomit";i:4;s:9:"typically";i:7;s:5:"phone";i:3;s:4:"just";i:3;s:6:"really";i:5;s:5:"maybe";i:5;s:8:"thinking";i:3;s:8:"everyday";i:3;s:5:"video";i:3;s:5:"think";i:5;s:4:"home";i:6;s:4:"read";i:5;s:4:"i'll";i:6;s:7:"because";i:5;s:6:"things";i:4;s:4:"work";i:7;s:4:"time";i:5;s:4:"data";i:3;s:7:"there's";i:4;s:8:"probably";i:5;s:7:"reading";i:4;s:6:"anyway";i:3;s:5:"house";i:3;s:4:"good";i:3;s:5:"stuff";i:3;s:4:"make";i:4;s:5:"lunch";i:4;s:6:"coffee";i:4;s:5:"going";i:3;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
---
I&#8217;ve been trying to write about my habits in a sort of bullet list, in some sort of orderly fashion. Progress on that has been a little slow, and I&#8217;m not feeling the feelings I want to feel from doing that. It feels like a bit of a big project. So I figured I&#8217;d do a word vomit about it. 

Let&#8217;s start with when I wake up. When I wake up, I tend to feel tired and groggy. I don&#8217;t get out of bed straight away, I lie in for a while. Once I&#8217;ve &#8220;sobered up&#8221; a little, I typically grab my phone and start looking for notifications– Facebook (I&#8217;ve just uninstalled it from my phone), Twitter, Instagram (actually not really helping me&#8230; maybe I should uninstall this one too.) I have a Trello board now with my &#8220;currently thinking about / to-do&#8221; list, and I AM starting to develop a habit of checking it everyday. But I don&#8217;t like what I do in the mornings. I like the idea of watching a motivational video, but my wife is in bed with me and I don&#8217;t want to annoy her by playing some loud noisy video. So I think what I should do is write a note to myself in Evernote and then have a shortcut to that on my home screen, so that I read it in the morning and psych myself up. Maybe I&#8217;ll write that right after I finish this.

Once I&#8217;ve gone through a bunch of notifications (and I typically feel a bit silly about this, because I can always check these things once I&#8217;m out the door and on the way to work&#8230; if I even care to. I could use that time to do something more substantial, like watch a video of something I care about. I&#8217;m hesitant to do this because I don&#8217;t want to waste data, because my wife&#8217;s always bugging me about data. There&#8217;s probably a superior solution that doesn&#8217;t involve data– I should be able to save things to my phone or something. I&#8217;ll ask her for her thoughts.)

I wonder if I should have prioritized reading for things I should read on my commutes. Having wondered it, I know it to be true. I still haven&#8217;t read the Bloomberg &#8220;What is Code&#8221; article, and I know I want to. So why haven&#8217;t I done that? Something to think about. 

There was a time where I used to try to write word vomits on the train, but now I&#8217;m thinking I don&#8217;t really like to do that. It typically results with me having an incomplete vomit, and I hate having to revisit half-complete vomits because I can never quite recreate the state of mind I was in when I wrote it. But I suppose I could just continue the vomit once I reach work, and quickly finish it and ship it. So that&#8217;s an option. It&#8217;s certainly superior to checking Twitter, which never has anything useful for me anyway. I&#8217;ve unfollowed most people from my personal account, so there&#8217;s barely anything to see. 

Oh, before I leave the house I have a routine where I use the toilet (and typically do some reading while I&#8217;m in there. I&#8217;m proud of this routine– it gets me all this nice extra reading and makes me feel like I&#8217;m learning and growing) and shower and towel off and get dressed and leave the house. I&#8217;d like to take 5 minutes to meditate before leaving the house, I feel like it would put me in a good state. And that would help me decide if I should read something or write something during my morning commute.

Once I get to work, I typically go straight to my desk and turn on my laptop. But then I still haven&#8217;t gotten around to developing a simple checklist of work tasks I should do everyday. This is silly and annoying. I should create a trello card with my Dailies, and get those dailies done every day. There&#8217;s a minimum amount of stuff that needs doing everyday and I should make sure that I do it. I should make this a part of my personal board. 

Then there&#8217;s lunch, and after lunch I tend to feel a little unproductive. I&#8217;m not very good at doing &#8220;worky work&#8221; (dafuq am I trying to say with that phrase? I guess work that&#8217;s public facing– I&#8217;m not in the mood to reply to emails or write articles or do editing) after lunch. So I should use that time to re-plan my day&#8230; probably with pen and paper. Maybe do some strategic thinking for some set amount of time. Then I should pick a task and attack it with single-minded focus. I typically take a coffee break either after lunch or at around 4– that habit is probably going to change because the coffee place a floor down from my office is going to be closing at the end of the month. Should I find coffee from elsewhere? Or should I stop drinking coffee altogether and pick something else? I&#8217;ll probably be eating granola bars and stuff anyway– otherwise I get low blood sugar levels and then my last two hours are unproductive. Maybe I should set up an alert for that to make sure that I keep to it. Doesn&#8217;t really feel necessary. I&#8217;ll add a task for myself to think about it, anyway.

My commute home– if I have colleagues leaving with me, I spend it chatting with them, which I enjoy very much. Otherwise I typically&#8230; do social media stuff again, which is boring and annoying. So here again I should have a &#8220;for commutes&#8221; bucket of reading and writing ideas that I can focus on. Or I should just listen to music and be calm and relaxed.

Then I get home. Sometimes my wife and I have dinner together at home, sometimes we eat takeout, sometimes we go out for dinner. I should plan these things with her in advance, earlier in the day or way in advance. I should set aside time to make these plans. I&#8217;ll want to think about that one too. And then&#8230; we might lounge around at home, I might be doing some unfinished work, or we might watch some Netflix together. If I&#8217;m really in a good mood I might play some guitar, or read a book. 

I have some routines that only get triggered in certain circumstances. If I&#8217;m up really early, I&#8217;ll maybe go for a run. If I&#8217;m home early, I think about going for a run, too. I should probably write about that in a separate vomit since this one has crossed 1.1k words.