---
id: 9575
title: 0423 – muddled time
date: 2015-07-22T18:41:17+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://visakanv.com/1000/?p=9575
permalink: /0423
readability_ARI:
  - "3.1"
readability_CLI:
  - "5"
readability_LIX:
  - "21.3"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1028"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:363:"a:22:{s:6:"things";i:8;s:5:"think";i:7;s:4:"time";i:10;s:4:"sort";i:6;s:4:"know";i:7;s:6:"trying";i:3;s:8:"remember";i:3;s:4:"like";i:9;s:6:"really";i:8;s:6:"people";i:4;s:4:"just";i:6;s:7:"suppose";i:4;s:4:"real";i:4;s:5:"can't";i:3;s:5:"tired";i:3;s:4:"look";i:3;s:7:"looking";i:3;s:8:"thinking";i:3;s:4:"make";i:3;s:4:"i'll";i:6;s:4:"need";i:5;s:4:"read";i:3;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
---
A couple of things happened today that made me think about the passage of time. An ex-colleague visited the office, and the delightful incubator/cafe place I get my coffee from (JFDI– downstairs from my office) is packing up.

Time is passing every day. We&#8217;re technically only ever here in the present moment. But at the same time there seem to be milestones that signal some sort of &#8216;end of an era&#8217;. Or triggers that take you back to old times. [1]

I mean&#8230; I don&#8217;t know, man. I&#8217;m 25 now. I&#8217;m trying to remember what it was like to be 5, 10, 15, 20. I feel like I do remember quite a few of those things, but at the same time&#8230; a lot of it is reconstructed, isn&#8217;t it? Memories aren&#8217;t recalled, they&#8217;re recreated. So I don&#8217;t know. Does it really matter? What is the &#8220;it&#8221; I&#8217;m talking about when I ask &#8220;does it really matter&#8221;? A proper relationship with the past, I guess. Is it ever possible to really have a good one? It feels like meditation will yield the proper answer, but for some reason I&#8217;m hesitating and procrastinating on the meditating. I should think about that one. Or maybe not. I don&#8217;t know. I don&#8217;t know anything!

Something I&#8217;ve always said and thought that I wanted to do was to dig through all of my old Facebook posts and messages and comments and so on. And I sort of started doing that– I&#8217;m not sure if it was the best way, I was going through my activity log, and started in 2007. And I saw old prom pictures, and old people that I used to talk to but not very much anymore. I was hoping for some sort of insight and perspective on how much I&#8217;ve grown, how much I&#8217;ve changed. But there&#8217;s not a lot, really. I would blabber on and on a lot about a lot of things. I was prone to interrupting people and pointing out mistakes. I was an annoying smartass. It was how I got my kicks, how I got my validation. And I was a serial humblebragger. I didn&#8217;t really see any alternative. I didn&#8217;t have any accomplishments at the time. So I&#8217;d just debate people on the Internet. Reading it now, it all looks a little contrived. I suppose it&#8217;s all a sort of &#8220;playground politics&#8221;– what we invest our time and energy into when we don&#8217;t have any real stakes to play with, any real resources to invest or expend.

That&#8217;s the case with teenage social circles, isn&#8217;t it? Paul Graham had a sense of it in one of his essays about why nerds aren&#8217;t more popular, and how schools are like this artificial environment where rivalries fester. That&#8217;s just my interpretation, I can&#8217;t remember the details and I&#8217;m getting a little too tired to look things up. So&#8230; I was living in this sort of Potemkin world, nothing of real significance, nothing of real consequence.

I&#8217;m scrolling through current-day Facebook now, after looking at the walls of text and lengthy arguments I was having with people in 2011 and 2012, and I&#8217;m seeing that I can&#8217;t bring myself to get involved any more. I&#8217;m not sure if I&#8217;m just tired from my daily work, and I&#8217;m thinking about all the other work obligations I have, or if I can actually say that I&#8217;ve grown out of this stuff. I&#8217;d like to think it&#8217;s the latter, and that if I was well-rested I&#8217;d look at the wall-of-text and still think &#8220;Eh, that&#8217;s your opinion and I&#8217;m not really going to make a positive difference by challenging you to a debate on your public wall.&#8221; If it&#8217;s really important to me that you get a more rigorous understanding of something– then I&#8217;ll ask you out, and I&#8217;ll ask you what you think, and I&#8217;ll ask you a bunch of questions. We&#8217;ll make progress a lot faster. I suppose when I was younger that didn&#8217;t seem like an option, or nearly as valid an option. I was really broke at the time. I don&#8217;t know. I don&#8217;t need to explain or justify who I was to anybody. I know THAT. So why do I try to do it? I&#8217;m trying to make sense to myself, or maybe I&#8217;m just trying to fill in the wordcount.

All of this is part of the plan, all of this was expected. Nothing surprising here.

I need to &#8220;forgive myself&#8221; in many ways. And I need to just recognize that I already have everything I&#8217;ll ever need, and that I could resolve a lot of things by making slightly better decisions. Why aren&#8217;t I doing it? Because I like the drama? I like the stimuli? I want things to be a bit dangerous, a bit sexy, a bit emo? At 25 now, when I look at how I was writing when I was 21, I think, &#8220;Wow, that&#8217;s a lot of wasted energy and motion just fluffing around.&#8221; What will I be thinking at 30, looking back at 25? I think I&#8217;ll be thinking&#8230; &#8220;Why weren&#8217;t you meditating? Why weren&#8217;t you exercising? Why weren&#8217;t you eating better? You knew all along that those were the right things to do, why were you waiting? What were you waiting for? What was stopping you?&#8221;

I can&#8217;t quite put my finger on it. How many nights do you need to sleep on something before the answer comes to you fully formed in a dream, and/or upon waking? Each time I get a chance to speak to myself, I feel like saying&#8230; pay attention. Listen up. Breathe deep. Be big, be expansive, you already know.

I wanted to write about time. There is only now. It is painful to overthink. I am tired.
  
\_____

[1] I haven&#8217;t read Proust, but my understanding is that his magnum opus &#8220;In Search Of Lost Time&#8221; is a lot about this sort of thing. I wonder if I&#8217;ll ever read it. It&#8217;s over 4,200 pages. I&#8217;m looking up the Wiki now. I suppose I might read it sometime. I suppose a lot of things.