---
id: 6414
title: '0034 &#8211; waking early'
date: 2013-01-18T08:36:24+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://www.visakanv.com/blog/?p=6414
permalink: /0034
readability_ARI:
  - "7"
readability_CLI:
  - "5.9"
readability_LIX:
  - "23.1"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1025"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:281:"a:17:{s:5:"think";i:8;s:4:"just";i:10;s:5:"going";i:8;s:5:"early";i:9;s:5:"sleep";i:9;s:4:"need";i:4;s:5:"hours";i:3;s:4:"feel";i:4;s:4:"hard";i:4;s:6:"really";i:8;s:4:"time";i:3;s:7:"realize";i:3;s:4:"like";i:4;s:5:"can't";i:3;s:7:"because";i:3;s:5:"write";i:4;s:7:"clutter";i:3;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
tags:
  - sleep
---
Somebody said to me yesterday, &#8220;You&#8217;ve got so much potential, isn&#8217;t it a waste if you don&#8217;t go to University?&#8221; What should I say to that? I don&#8217;t want to go to University, I don&#8217;t qualify for great courses, and thank you for thinking I&#8217;ve got great potential- I don&#8217;t think that&#8217;s something worth talking about- but I&#8217;ll just take that elsewhere, then. Why not? What&#8217;s wrong with that? Meh.

Anyway. I went to bed earlier than usual last night- I had intended to go to bed at about 10pm but I think I actually went to bed at about 10:40pm, which is not too bad (Sometimes I intend to go to bed at midnight, and end up going to bed at about 6am, which is terrible). And I think I&#8217;ve discovered the best case for sleeping early- it seems to me that when you sleep early, you need less sleep. When I sleep at 11pm, I wake up at about 7am. Which is about 8 hours of sleep. When I sleep at 3 or 4 am though, I tend to wake up at anywhere between 2 to 4 pm- which is 10 to 12 hours of sleep. Somehow sleeping early allows me to feel more rested AND save about 3-4 hours a day. That&#8217;s almost magical if you think about it. Compound that with the fact that early mornings are just beautiful times to be up at- the weather is pleasant, the world comes to greet you, all is beautiful and well. I need to practice going to sleep early and waking up early enough for this to enter my thick skull until I feel it in my bones, rather than just intellectually.

Sleep early, folks.

A part of the reason I think I was even ABLE to go to bed early- apart from having meant to for quite a few days now- is that I had hit the gym hard the day before. My whole body is sore- specifically my traps and hamstrings- and there&#8217;s something about having a body experiencing intense muscle soreness that allows you to in-your-bones feel that you really ought to go to bed and get some recovery time in. I thought I knew this already but it makes it clearer- hard exercise makes it easier to reset sleep cycles.

I haven&#8217;t been doing my word vomits lately and I&#8217;m really sorry about that- but at the same time I should realize that I shouldn&#8217;t let it get me down, that falls-off-the-wagon are normal and I should just get right back on this bitch. I started out thinking I was going to recompensate for it by doing 3, 4 maybe even 5 vomits a day- but now that doesn&#8217;t seem very doable, or even if it were doable, it&#8217;s way too intimidating and it ceases to sound fun- it starts to sound like work. What I should do instead, when I fall off the wagon, is to just get right back on, without any consideration about additional recompensation. Just get the habit rolling again. You can do more when you&#8217;re ready, you can strike more when the iron is a little hotter. For now, just get back on track. That&#8217;s all that matters.

There has been a lot going on in my life lately that I wish I could talk about more freely, but I can&#8217;t because it involves other people&#8217;s lives and I can&#8217;t afford to play around with that. Which is a shame, because I think it might be the source of my most honest, sincere and powerful writing yet.

But then I flip it on its head- why don&#8217;t I just write about it anyway, for myself? And then I realize that I have gotten so used to the idea of writing for an audience of some sort- even in the early days of my blog- that I have forgotten what it is like to write entirely for myself. I hardly ever do that- I only ever seem to do that with pen and paper, when I am alone. I used to do it during my Signals course and I thought that was a pleasant headspace to be in. So I should probably do that.

I have my ambitions and I have articles to write for Poached and I haven&#8217;t really been answering questions on Quora, either. At the same time I really need to put my resume together and get a job. I think my absolute first priority is to go through my entire blog- I&#8217;ve already started, and I&#8217;m going to go all the way through. It&#8217;s really kind of hard to explain WHY I&#8217;m doing this but it&#8217;s just something I have to do. In my personal life I also have got to sort out all my books and posessions. I did a massive warddrobe declutter, and it&#8217;s amusing and scary how you can lose so much and still feel like it&#8217;s not as lean as it ought to be. How you can throw so much out of your spaces and still realize that there&#8217;s clutter left underneath the clutter. I think we should all live minimalist lives. Oh god I have so much clutter everywhere.

But again, baby steps in all things. You can&#8217;t survive multiple major operations, but you&#8217;re more likely to get fit through healthy diet and exercise, through a slowly built habit, progressively. I ran out of cigarettes yesterday, and I&#8217;m going to put off buying a new pack for as long as I can.

I also need a job. I&#8217;m going to be trying for SIA Cabin Crew- the interview is on Jan 26th. I really hope I pass the test and get selected, because it would be all kinds of awesome for me. I would be able to read and write like crazy, and see the world, and meet friends living overseas, and it would just be superfantastic. I hope really really hard that it works out. I&#8217;m going to do my research about how it works and make sure I&#8217;m the most well-informed sonofabitch who shows up there.