---
id: 6341
title: '0033 &#8211; blah update'
date: 2013-01-14T13:40:31+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://www.visakanv.com/blog/?p=6341
permalink: /0033
readability_ARI:
  - "8.7"
readability_CLI:
  - "7.6"
readability_LIX:
  - "26"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1025"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:435:"a:26:{s:4:"feel";i:7;s:7:"thought";i:4;s:6:"people";i:3;s:7:"because";i:6;s:5:"sleep";i:3;s:6:"things";i:10;s:6:"really";i:8;s:5:"write";i:3;s:5:"can't";i:3;s:6:"little";i:3;s:7:"certain";i:3;s:4:"well";i:3;s:10:"completely";i:3;s:4:"mind";i:4;s:4:"time";i:3;s:4:"know";i:3;s:5:"ideas";i:5;s:5:"going";i:3;s:4:"like";i:6;s:6:"what's";i:3;s:4:"good";i:3;s:7:"reading";i:3;s:4:"read";i:3;s:7:"fragile";i:3;s:4:"just";i:6;s:4:"work";i:4;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
---
It&#8217;s 1pm. Yesterday, I began to feel sleepy at about 940pm. I thought I&#8217;d be in bed at 10pm. Ended up talking to people until past midnight&#8230; and then lingered on until 3am. Went to bed at 3am. isn&#8217;t that scary ridiculous? I spent a full FIVE hours longer than I had originally intended to. But I thought it was partially-kinda-worth-it because I made a new friend who&#8217;s pretty interesting and great to talk to. Invest in relationships, no? But also invest in sleep, idiot.

I&#8217;ve been doing some big things that I really, really would love to talk about and write about but I can&#8217;t really, and it kills me a little bit inside because it&#8217;s so real that I&#8217;m certain the writing would be beautiful- on the virtue of the validity of the feelings I feel, (&#8230; validity? there&#8217;s a better word. visceral quality of the feelings) that I feel- but oh well. Everybody&#8217;s life has unique circumstances, I should be thankful and grateful for certain things that I got that other people don&#8217;t. Maybe I should write for myself. I haven&#8217;t written completely for myself in quite a while, and in a sense I seldom really bother with that unless I&#8217;m writing on pen and paper, either into a journal or on random scraps of paper when I&#8217;m feeling particularly frustrated with life.

Anyway things on my mind- I&#8217;ve been wanting to re-do my entire blog. Well I&#8217;ve been saying that I&#8217;ve been wanting to do that for a long, long time but it&#8217;s such a &#8220;large&#8221; undertaking that I don&#8217;t know where to begin and I have all these grand visions and ideas and in the end I end up doing nothing. So I decided I&#8217;m going to start with what I feel like doing for fun, which is- I feel like adding TL;DR summaries to every single post, and curate them in a sort of table of contents kinda way. That way I will revisit each and every single blog post in existence, and figure out what&#8217;s good and what&#8217;s not so good. I&#8217;d like to summarize all of the thoughts and perspectives that I&#8217;ve explored over the years into a few neat lines- I sort of have a little bit of fetish for doing that, summarizing and resummarizing things&#8230; I know that&#8217;s how you learn, even though I never really did it completely well in school, I&#8217;ve found myself doodling it about things I care about&#8230; complex systems and all that jazz.

I&#8217;ve been reading quite a bit- not as much as I want to, but more than I&#8217;ve been reading in a while- I completed Nassim Taleb&#8217;s Antifragile, and while that fella meanders and pontificates a lot, his ideas are interesting, powerful, valid and thought-provoking. It&#8217;s a challenging read not because he uses big words or complex ideas, but because his simple questions and ideas require you to reconfigure existing paradigms in your head.

What&#8217;s the opposite of fragile? We usually think resilient or robust, but that&#8217;s like saying the opposite of 10 is 0- when it&#8217;s really -10. Fragile things are damaged by volatility. Robust things are not. Certain things are anti-fragile, which means they are IMPROVED by volatility. Such things do exist- immediate thoughts include muscle strength, the human brain, ecosystems, gene pools, scientific discoveries and art&#8230;

I wish I could summarize it better, a bad summary is always a sign that you didn&#8217;t entirely understand what you just read- you have to be able to communicate it to others, and really while I feel like I witnessed his epiphanies I don&#8217;t quite live and breathe them. I will re-read and get back to you, maybe express smaller ideas at a time.

I&#8217;ve also been reading Lee Kuan Yew&#8217;s Hard Truths and Robert Greene&#8217;s Mastery- the latter for stories about hard working successful people that I can learn from, and the former just to get some insights into the grand old dame that has built our nation.

I am frustrated with my environment. I don&#8217;t have an entirely comfortable workspace- I share one with my mum, and my house is just a noisy and difficult place to do work in. I hate my room and my bed- I keep getting bed bugs every so often even though I kill them all and I threw out my last bed and those bastards are really just spirit-draining and soul-crushing because they don&#8217;t let you sleep, and they give you terrible quality of sleep, and even when they&#8217;re not around they colonize your mind and they come back again and again and you just can&#8217;t rest. I can&#8217;t wait to get out of here, seriously.

Err what else is on my mind. I haven&#8217;t been purposely exercising but I&#8217;ve been doing some cleaning and moving and chores and my body is sore in that awesoem beautiful way you get when you hit the gym&#8230; and Taleb mentioned this too- why bother going to the gym, you know, when you can take the stairs more often, take longer walks, lift heavy things when given the opportunity? I thought about this when I was helping my dad out at work too, throwing garbage- it felt like a good workout, a very &#8220;real world&#8221; workout&#8230; I&#8217;m actually thinking it makes more sense to work part time with a mover&#8217;s, for instance, than to go to the gym- you get paid money for it and you do work that actually contributes to something. But I suppose that&#8217;s just one perspective and mayebe there are movers who hit the gym too because of reasons I cannot completely intuit.

This word vomit has been a tiny bit tedious to write. I can feel my mind being a little slow and cluttered. That&#8217;s okay. I&#8217;m going to shower in a while and then I will do something else. I need to send a letter to an accountant for a parent. This city is bound to do us in, is a nice lyric from a song by The Break And Repair Method- drummer from Matchbox 20. I&#8217;m done.