---
id: 6309
title: '0027 &#8211; missed a day'
date: 2013-01-06T02:54:50+00:00
author: visakanv
layout: post
guid: http://www.visakanv.com/blog/?p=6309
permalink: /0027
readability_ARI:
  - "8.6"
readability_CLI:
  - "6.8"
readability_LIX:
  - "22.7"
word_stats_word_count:
  - "1023"
word_stats_keywords:
  - |
    s:324:"a:19:{s:4:"days";i:4;s:6:"really";i:9;s:4:"need";i:3;s:4:"keep";i:3;s:7:"writing";i:3;s:4:"good";i:3;s:4:"like";i:6;s:5:"think";i:5;s:4:"just";i:4;s:4:"time";i:6;s:4:"know";i:5;s:9:"singapore";i:7;s:5:"valid";i:3;s:8:"thinking";i:5;s:4:"life";i:3;s:11:"singapore's";i:3;s:9:"education";i:3;s:4:"make";i:4;s:7:"systems";i:4;}";
word_stats_cached:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Word Vomit
---
Well it&#8217;s day 5/6 of 2013. I didn&#8217;t do any word vomits for day 4 and day 5, and I feel quite shitty about that- technically, I&#8217;ve been meaning to do 300 in 365 days, so I have about 5 &#8220;rest days&#8221; per month that I can use, but it really feels shitty/silly to be using one (or two) so early in the year. The habit needs to be built, and so I need to keep at it. I&#8217;m not sure whether I should do 3 or 4 tonight- it&#8217;s 230am, and if I do 4 at one go, that&#8217;s writing until 330am&#8230; is that a good idea? I should sleep as early as possible. But I feel like I have to get this out of the way. Let&#8217;s not think so much and get to writing.

2013 has been just beautiful for me so far. A friend of mine just asked a girl out after months of deliberation, and she said yes. That was wonderful to witness. Simple joys. I&#8217;m really happy for you, bro. Live in the moment, like we talked about. It doesn&#8217;t matter how it turns out in the end- what matters is that you took the leap, and the positive response was the icing on the cake, the feather in the cap.

At the same time, I&#8217;ve been really upset about all the defamation suits going around in SG politics- Lee Hsien Loong sending a letter of demand to Alex Au, Tan Chuan-Jin sending one to Vincent Wijeysingha&#8230; I understand, it can be frustrating and worrisome to read accusations and allegations, but really, in this day and age, are such harsh tactics really necessary? After all that talk about &#8220;gracious society&#8221; and all that? Couldn&#8217;t ya&#8217;ll have, I don&#8217;t know, asked to meet in person and talk it out, and come to a gentleman&#8217;s solution? Am I being too wishful here? I wish we could be nicer to one another.

I met a few older friends for supper a couple of days ago and it was very sobering to witness how these people- who were, and continue to be incredible passionate, motivated and driven about their craft and work- have lost faith in the concept of Singapore- one said that the Singapore that he grew up in and loves now exists only in his memories, and in conversations with friends, and that the Singapore of today isn&#8217;t the Singapore of before. I accept that. It&#8217;s valid.

I&#8217;ve been thinking- and it&#8217;s been hitting me especially hard, lately, now that I&#8217;ve gotten so many emails and responses from outside of Singapore: Singapore is only 5,000,000 out of 7,000,000,000. That&#8217;s 5 out of 7,000, that&#8217;s less than 1 in a 1,000, that&#8217;s&#8230; uh my maths is bad&#8230; that&#8217;s about 0.07%. Think about it, if you spend all your life in Singapore, worrying about Singaporean politics, you&#8217;re really worrying about 0.07% of the known human population. I have spent a good 5 years of my life or so thinking about Singapore&#8217;s future and education policies and social climate and things like that (and things like Singapore&#8217;s music scene, which I am passionate about, but reflects an even smaller percentage&#8230;) and I know, life shouldn&#8217;t be a number&#8217;s game, but really, does it make sense to be so worked up about something so small? Could I be better using my time and energy focusing on bigger issues, could I be making a bigger and more meaningful difference in the world? I&#8217;ve always had ambitions of expanding in terms of scale of influence- I want to leave behind some sort of art that impacts all of humanity, hopefully- and I know, some people will say that&#8217;s way out of my league- but how do you get there if you don&#8217;t dream about it? You don&#8217;t get to be President of the USA by accident, for example- thousands of guys dream about it, hundreds of them fight tooth and nail for it, and everybody who ends up in such positions set out to be there, had a vision to be there before they were ever even close to it. So I make no apologies for thinking and dreaming big.

Education needs to be revamped and updated. I&#8217;ve been reading Nassim Taleb&#8217;s Anti-Fragile and it&#8217;s been resonating with me powerfully- I accept and understand criticisms of his ego and arrogance and stuff like that, but his actual points make a lot of sense, and it&#8217;s completely true and valid that a lot of the world could and should be fixed with some proper wisdom- that&#8217;s sorely lacking. Our financial systems, our education systems, really, all our human systems (including Singapore&#8217;s political systems&#8230;) how do I do something meaningful, real, powerful, valid? And having dreamt all those big dreams, how do I put food on the table, how do I put a roof over my head, how do I make my family happy and proud? There&#8217;s a lot to think about, and more importantly, there&#8217;s a lot to do, and I think doing is more important than thinking (for a person who spends more time thinking than doing), and so I should be doing more doing. I will get all of these vomits out and then I will write the emails that I know I&#8217;ve been putting off for some time.

I&#8217;ve been meaning to scour through my old blog posts and do some housekeeping and I&#8217;ve been putting it off partially because I think it&#8217;s redundant, silly and unnecessary, and partially because it just seems like way too much work. Why don&#8217;t I do a little at a time? I really just need to keep track of my days. It&#8217;s frustrating to run into this impasse of sorts where you know what you need to do but you&#8217;re struggling to do it- but maybe I&#8217;m doing it right now, maybe as long as I keep writing while staying offline, all is good. This is This is the first word vomit and I&#8217;m completing it almost 4 minutes ahead of time. Next one.